{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 ArialMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Palatino-Roman;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial-BoldMT;}{\f4\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial-ItalicMT;}{\f5\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial-BoldItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red34\green34\blue34;\red43\green43\blue45;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sa160\sl259\slmult1\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs22 InCombined files from icloud}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Fusion}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 People always get hung up on terminology differences between the Urantia book and Course in Miracles. Some say how can I accept a course that says sin is an illusion or sin does not exist. My response is how can you accept the Urantia book when it says sin is a cosmic unreality, and that sin is not a spirit reality. We can even find quotes in the Urantia book from Jesus who says \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93My brother, God is love; therefore he must be good, and his goodness is so great and real that it cannot contain the small and UNREAL THINGS OF EVIL.\u8221\'94 Was that a mistake in the Urantia book? Did Jesus really say that? He didn\u8217\'92t mean it literally did he?  According to the UB sin is unreal. Where else besides the Urantia book and Course in Miracles will you hear that kind of language? And where else will you hear about the possibility of passing to a higher reality without dying? What is the purpose of the Course? Is it to live in the world and be of the world? Or is the goal to transcend time and see at least to the morontia semi spirit level? }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 And the text surely doesn\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t recommend you dismiss this reality and say oh so what and I don\u8217\'92t need to care or do anything.  The text says it wants active participants. It even gave us a slogan, listen, learn and do. \u8220\'93 Listen to my voice, learn to undo error, and do something to correct it. The first two are not enough. The real members of my party are active workers.\u8221\'94 Do something to correct it. You can\u8217\'92t read one lesson and say oh that is so wrong. It is a Course and the text is a vital part of it. If you just want to live in this world and identify every evil and every sin and attack it in the name of saving humanity then maybe the Course is not for you. Because the Course is clearly a guide to transcend time and get in touch with our higher mind, morontia mind. And the Urantia book clearly says adjuster fusion is a lofty goal. What is fusion but doing God\u8217\'92s will perfectly. After all this is exactly what Jesus did. \u8220\'93What is the face of Christ but his who went a moment into timelessness and brought a clear reflection of the unity he felt an instant back to bless the world?\u8221\'94.  So it is unfair to classify the course as some kind of irresponsible advocate for not caring. How can that be when it constantly emphasizes our sonship with each other? It constantly encourages us to forgive each other and turn to the Holy Spirit for guidance in what to do next. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Personality survival}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Regarding personality extinction this is what the Urantia book says about that. First, this: 109:3.2 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Nothing of survival value is ever lost in all the wide universe.\u8221\'94 From an eternal perspective there is no danger of losing anything that matters. Hence no fear. The personality will survive, the adjuster will survive, even the experiences of the lost identity of the human will survive in the adjuster. The part that does not survive is the IDENTITY of the human being. That is a purely temporal creation. No danger ever exists in eternity. The idea that God or Jesus would create some kind of reality (temporal) and then subject something that was changeless and eternal (personality) to a potential eternal death is as heartless as the atonement doctrine of Christianity (that God required his perfect son\u8217\'92s life on the cross as ransom for a creation he no longer loves). }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 These words in the Urantia book are plain and simple. It says personality will attain deity destiny. It never changes, it will not die. What dies is the human identity in time, a purely temporal creation. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 112:5.2 Having appeared in response to the Father's will, PERSONALITY WILL ATTAIN DEITY DESTINY, but man must choose whether or not he will be present at the attainment of such destiny. IN DEFAULT OF SUCH CHOICE, PERSONALITY ATTAINS EXPERIENTIAL DEITY DIRECTLY, becoming a part of the Supreme Being. The cycle is foreordained, but man's participation therein is optional, personal, and experiential.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 When it says \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93mans participation\u8221\'94 it is referring to identity in time, not personality in eternity. Eternity is an impossible concept for us to comprehend. We can only logically think about the idea that something is changeless and has always existed. This is how the Urantia book describes personality. It is unchanging in the face of change. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 112:5.20 Human life is an endless change of the factors of life unified by the stability of the unchanging personality.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 It is the one CHANGELESS REALITY in an otherwise ever-changing creature experience. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 0:5.11Personality. The personality of mortal man is neither body, mind, nor spirit; neither is it the soul. PERSONALITY IS THE ONE CHANGELESS REALITY in an otherwise ever-changing creature experience}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 In the next quote it says never again does it (identity) appear as a personality. It\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s identity becomes a though it had never been. Here we are talking about identity not personality. Personality becomes a part of the supreme being. It is important to differentiate between personality and identity. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 2:3.4 When the continued embrace of sin by the associated mind culminates in complete self-identification with iniquity, then upon the cessation of life, upon cosmic dissolution, such an isolated PERSONALITY is absorbed into the oversoul of creation, BECOMING A PART OF THE EVOLVING EXPERIENCE OF THE SUPREME BEING. Never again does it appear as a personality; its IDENTITY becomes as though it had never been.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 When it says \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93never again does it\u8221\'94, the \u8220\'93it\u8221\'94 the Urantia book is referring to is identity not personality and identity will never again appear in time. How can personality become as though it had never been when it is changeless? Nothing of value is ever lost in the whole wide universe. There is nothing to fear in the big picture. God\u8217\'92s plan is merciful and just. The end of time will be the culmination of all temporal experience. God the Supreme will wake up and forever be in charge of his temporal creation. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 117:2.1 And the final fruits of all finite growth are: power controlled through mind by spirit by virtue of the unifying and creative presence of personality. The culminating consequence of all this growth is the Supreme Being.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The whole point of this post is to point out the course\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s message that there is ultimately nothing to fear. That was Jesus\u8217\'92s message, the Urantia book\u8217\'92s message, (Unreasoned fear is a master intellectual fraud practiced upon the evolving mortal soul), and the Course in Miracles message. The creation of the Supreme Being is a messy business here on earth. It is like making sausage. But nothing from an eternal perspective is in danger.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Stephany }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 And the Course states God's judgment will happen when welcomed.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 It may actually be an ongoing process for everyone in a conscious state of "friendship with God".}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Personality that is a gift of God is from that eternal realm where He has known all and everyone always. Any of that choosing which ends a creature's personal identity existence takes place in the time/space experiential universes, before all is said and done and being perfected they eternalize in the Supreme.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The technicalities of how this effects non-TA indwelt creatures might be a question of interest to ego mind to mull over for a few moments, but God has a universe of justice and fairness, the fact is that in Reality His Will is ALL that can be done at the culmination of time/space and the    actualization of God the Supreme, the power personality synthesis that initiates the consummation of universe destiny. To the Father we're individual sons. To the Supreme we are One Son...the whole sonship.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 117:6.21 A human ascender can find the Father; God is existential and therefore real, irrespective of the status of experience in the total universe. But no single ascender will ever find the Supreme until all ascenders have reached that maximum universe maturity which qualifies them simultaneously to participate in this discovery.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 117:6.22 The Father is no respecter of persons; he treats each of his ascending sons as cosmic individuals. The Supreme likewise is no respecter of persons; he treats his experiential children as a single cosmic total.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 -\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 56:1.5 In the infinite nature of God the Father there could not possibly exist duality of reality, such as physical and spiritual; but the instant we look aside from the infinite levels and absolute reality of the personal values of the Paradise Father, we observe the existence of these two realities and recognize that they are fully responsive to his personal presence; in him all things consist.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 "...You can know the truth, and you can live the truth; you can experience the }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 growth of truth in the soul and enjoy the liberty of its enlightenment }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 in the mind, but you cannot imprison truth in formulas, codes, creeds, }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 or intellectual patterns of human conduct.. . . . " P.1949 - 4 The }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia Book "}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ...Truth cannot be defined with words, only by living. Truth is always more than knowledge. . . . . " P.1459 - 2 The }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia Book}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 This is why it is critical that we understand the idea of fusion if anyone is ever to reach that goal. The faith that we can attain perfection is required if we are to ever reach it. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 132:3.5 But truth can never become man\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s possession without the exercise of faith. This is true because man\u8217\'92s thoughts, wisdom, ethics, and ideals will never rise higher than his faith, his sublime hope. And all such true faith is predicated on profound reflection, sincere self-criticism, and uncompromising moral consciousness. Faith is the inspiration of the spiritized creative imagination.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 111:4.9 Since this inner life of man is truly creative, there rests upon each person the responsibility of choosing as to whether this creativity shall be spontaneous and wholly haphazard or controlled, directed, and constructive.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Destroy fear, Course message. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 They are equipped to overcome evil with good, to vanquish hate by love, to destroy fear with a courageous and living faith in truth.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Paper 118 30 mins dangerous and unstable, spiritual alliance}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Fail to compensate loss of stability}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Limit choice range}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Shakes off shackles of fear}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Is the course teaching us to create a spirit alliance to liberate us from the fetters of the material life mechanism?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1301.8) 118:8.3 The spirit liberates, and the mechanism limits, the function of will. Imperfect choice, uncontrolled by mechanism, unidentified with spirit, is dangerous and unstable. Mechanical dominance insures stability at the expense of progress; spirit alliance liberates choice from the physical level and at the same time assures the divine stability produced by augmented universe insight and increased cosmic comprehension.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Is this the kind of danger the course is warning us about?  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1302.1) 118:8.4 The great danger that besets the creature is that, in achieving liberation from the fetters of the life mechanism, he will fail to compensate this loss of stability by effecting a harmonious working liaison with spirit. Creature choice, when relatively liberated from mechanical stability, may attempt further self-liberation independent of greater spirit identification.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The whole principle of biologic evolution makes it impossible for primitive man to appear on the inhabited worlds with any large endowment of self-restraint. Therefore does the same creative design which purposed evolution likewise provide those external restraints of time and space, hunger and fear, which effectively circumscribe the subspiritual choice range of such uncultured creatures.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1217.2) 111:1.7 Evolutionary mind is only fully stable and dependable when manifesting itself upon the two extremes of cosmic intellectuality \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  the wholly mechanized and the entirely spiritualized. Between the intellectual extremes of pure mechanical control and true spirit nature there intervenes that enormous group of evolving and ascending minds whose stability and tranquillity are dependent upon personality choice and spirit identification.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Adjuster fusion \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93across the barriers of time\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 With your consent, this faithful pilot will safely carry you across the barriers of time and the handicaps of space to the very source of the divine mind and on beyond, even to the Paradise Father of Adjusters.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Course parallels to above:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM Some of the later parts of the course rest too heavily on these earlier sections not to require their study. You will also need them for preparation. Without this, you may become much too fearful when the unexpected does occur to make constructive use of it. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM 3 Some of the later steps in this course, however, do involve a more direct approach to God Himself. It would be most unwise to start on these steps without careful preparation or awe will be confused with fear, and the experience will be more traumatic than beatific. Healing is of God in the end. The means are being carefully explained to you. Revelation may occasionally reveal the end to you, but to reach it the means are needed. ...... is the means a Course in Miracles? BL}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 while such bestowals unfailingly reveal to the creatures themselves the Paradise path of divinity attainment}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 When the bestowal Sons reveal new ways for man to find God, they are not creating these paths of divinity attainment; rather are they illuminating the everlasting highways of progression which lead through the presence of the Supreme to the person of the Paradise Father.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Human beings are capable of making an everlasting self-identification with total and indestructible universe reality \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  fusion with the indwelling Thought Adjuster.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Quotes from UB}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 112:2.11 As mind pursues reality to its ultimate analysis, matter vanishes to the material senses but may still remain real to mind. When spiritual insight pursues that reality which remains after the disappearance of matter and pursues it to an ultimate analysis, it vanishes to mind, but the insight of spirit can still perceive cosmic realities and supreme values of a spiritual nature. Accordingly does science give way to philosophy, while philosophy must surrender to the conclusions inherent in genuine spiritual experience. Thinking surrenders to wisdom, and wisdom is lost in enlightened and reflective worship.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 And as man loves God, so does man become eternal in actuality. And here is mystery: The more closely man approaches God through love, the greater the reality \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  actuality \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  of that man. The more man withdraws from God, the more nearly he approaches nonreality \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  cessation of existence.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 112:5.2 That which comes from the Father is like the Father eternal, and this is just as true of personality, which God gives by his own freewill choice, as it is of the divine Thought Adjuster, an actual fragment of God. Man\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s personality is eternal but with regard to identity a conditioned eternal reality. Having appeared in response to the Father\u8217\'92s will, personality will attain Deity destiny, but man must choose whether or not he will be present at the attainment of such destiny. In default of such choice, personality attains experiential Deity directly, becoming a part of the Supreme Being. The cycle is foreordained, but man\u8217\'92s participation therein is optional, personal, and experiential. Is this soul}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 112:5.4 Human beings possess identity only in the material sense. Such qualities of the self are expressed by the material mind as it functions in the energy system of the intellect. When it is said that man has identity, it is recognized that he is in possession of a mind circuit which has been placed in subordination to the acts and choosing of the will of the human personality. But this is a material and purely temporary manifestation, just as the human embryo is a transient parasitic stage of human life. Human beings, from a cosmic perspective, are born, live, and die in a relative instant of time; they are not enduring. But mortal personality, through its own choosing, possesses the power of transferring its seat of identity from the passing material-intellect system to the higher morontia-soul system which, in association with the Thought Adjuster, is created as a new vehicle for personality manifestation.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 "much of your past life" Illusion "and it's memories".... "will perish"}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 112:5.22 The Thought }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  will recall and rehearse for you only those memories and experiences which are a part of, and essential to, your universe career. If the  has been a partner in the evolution of aught in the human mind, then will these worth-while experiences survive in the eternal consciousness of the Adjuster. But much of your past life and its memories, having neither spiritual meaning nor morontia value, will perish with the material brain; much of material experience will pass away as onetime scaffolding which, having bridged you over to the morontia level, no longer serves a purpose in the universe. But personality and the relationships between personalities are never scaffolding; mortal memory of personality relationships has cosmic value and will persist. On the mansion worlds you will know and be known, and more, you will remember, eand be remembered by, your onetime associates in the short but intriguing life on Urantia.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 112:7.3 Fusion with the Adjuster is usually effected while the ascender is resident within his local system. It may occur on the planet of nativity as a transcendence of natural death; it may take place on any one of the mansion worlds or on the headquarters of the system; it may even be delayed until the time of the constellation sojourn; or, in special instances, it may not be consummated until the ascender is on the local universe capital.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 109:6.2   As related to fusion candidates, if a Mystery Monitor is deserted by the mortal associate, if the human partner declines to pursue the ascending career, when released by natural death (or prior thereto), the Adjuster carries away everything of survival value which has evolved in the mind of that nonsurviving creature. If an Adjuster should repeatedly fail to attain fusion personality because of the nonsurvival of successive human subjects, and if this Monitor should subsequently be personalized, all the acquired experience of having indwelt and mastered all these mortal minds would become the actual possession of such a newly Personalized Adjuster, an endowment to be enjoyed and utilized throughout all future ages. A Personalized Adjuster of this order is a composite assembly of all the survival traits of all his former creature hosts.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22       The spirit can dominate mind; so mind can control energy. But mind can control energy only through its own intelligent manipulation of the metamorphic potentials inherent in the mathematical level of the causes and effects of the physical domains. Creature mind does not inherently control energy; that is a Deity prerogative. But creature mind can and does manipulate energy just in so far as it has become master of the energy secrets of the physical universe.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 We will never fully understand the spirit perspective as a mortal. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Inherent capacities cannot be exceeded; a pint can never hold a quart. The spirit concept cannot be mechanically forced into the material memory mold. 48:7.5 3 UB}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 perfection within the limits of finite possibilities}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 In the nature of the finaliter this will probably equal the completed attainment of the mind struggle for spirit self-realization, the completion of the co-ordination of the ascendant man-nature with the divine Adjuster-nature within the limits of finite possibilities. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Mansion world stuff}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The creature mind-matrix and the passive potentials of identity are present in the morontia soul intrusted to the keeping of the seraphic destiny guardians. And it is the reuniting of the morontia-soul trust of the seraphim and the spirit-mind trust of the Adjuster that reassembles creature personality and constitutes resurrection of a sleeping survivor.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The sojourn on mansion world number one is designed to develop mortal survivors at least up to the status of the post-Adamic dispensation on the normal evolutionary worlds. Spiritually, of course, the mansion world students are far in advance of such a state of mere human development.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Mansonia number two more specifically provides for the removal of all phases of intellectual conflict and for the cure of all varieties of mental disharmony. The effort to master the significance of morontia mota, begun on the first mansion world, is here more earnestly continued. The development on mansonia number two compares with the intellectual status of the post-Magisterial Son culture of the ideal evolutionary worlds.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Mansonia the third is a world of great personal and social achievement for all who have not made the equivalent of these circles of culture prior to release from the flesh on the mortal nativity worlds. On this sphere more positive educational work is begun. The training of the first two mansion worlds is mostly of a deficiency nature \endash  negative \endash  in that it has to do with supplementing the experience of the life in the flesh. On this third mansion world the survivors really begin their progressive morontia culture. The chief purpose of this training is to enhance the understanding of the correlation of morontia mota and mortal logic, the co-ordination of morontia mota and human philosophy. Surviving mortals now gain practical insight into true metaphysics. This is the real introduction to the intelligent comprehension of cosmic meanings and universe interrelationships. The culture of the third mansion world partakes of the nature of the postbestowal Son age of a normal inhabited planet.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22           It is during the period of training on world number four that the ascending mortals are really first introduced to the demands and delights of the true social life of morontia creatures. And it is indeed a new experience for evolutionary creatures to participate in social activities which are predicated neither on personal aggrandizement nor on self-seeking conquest. A new social order is being introduced, one based on the understanding sympathy of mutual appreciation, the unselfish love of mutual service, and the overmastering motivation of the realization of a common and supreme destiny \endash  the Paradise goal of worshipful and divine perfection. Ascenders are all becoming self-conscious of God-knowing, God-revealing, God-seeking, and God-finding.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22           The intellectual and social culture of this fourth mansion world is comparable to the mental and social life of the post-Teacher Son age on the planets of normal evolution. The spiritual status is much in advance of such a mortal dispensation.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22   A real birth of cosmic consciousness takes place on mansonia number five. You are becoming universe minded. This is indeed a time of expanding horizons. It is beginning to dawn upon the enlarging minds of the ascending mortals that some stupendous and magnificent, some supernal and divine, destiny awaits all who complete the progressive Paradise ascension, which has been so laboriously but so joyfully and auspiciously begun. At about this point the average mortal ascender begins to manifest bona fide experiential enthusiasm for the Havona ascent. Study is becoming voluntary, unselfish service natural, and worship spontaneous. A real morontia character is budding; a real morontia creature is evolving.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22           This is a brilliant age for ascending mortals and usually witnesses the perfect fusion of the human mind and the divine Adjuster. In potential, this fusion may have occurred previously, but the actual working identity many times is not achieved until the time of the sojourn on the fifth mansion world or even the sixth.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22           During the sojourn on world number six the mansion world students achieve a status which is comparable with the exalted development characterizing those evolutionary worlds which have normally progressed beyond the initial stage of light and life. The organization of society on this mansonia is of a high order. The shadow of the mortal nature grows less and less as these worlds are ascended one by one. You are becoming more and more adorable as you leave behind the coarse vestiges of planetary animal origin. \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Coming up through great tribulation\u8221\'94 serves to make glorified mortals very kind and understanding, very sympathetic and tolerant.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Mansion world 7}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22           The experience on this sphere is the crowning achievement of the immediate postmortal career. During your sojourn here you will receive the instruction of many teachers, all of whom will co-operate in the task of preparing you for residence on Jerusem. Any discernible differences between those mortals hailing from the isolated and retarded worlds and those survivors from the more advanced and enlightened spheres are virtually obliterated during the sojourn on the seventh mansion world. Here you will be purged of all the remnants of unfortunate heredity, unwholesome environment, and unspiritual planetary tendencies. The last remnants of the \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93mark of the beast\u8221\'94 are here eradicated.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 You will greatly enjoy your progress through the seven dematerializing worlds; they are really demortalizing spheres. You are mostly human on the first mansion world, just a mortal being minus a material body, a human mind housed in a morontia form \endash  a material body of the morontia world but not a mortal house of flesh and blood. You really pass from the mortal state to the immortal status at the time of Adjuster fusion, and by the time you have finished the Jerusem career, you will be full-fledged morontians.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (551.1) 48:5.6 In the schools of the morontia life these teachers engage in individual, group, class, and mass teaching. On the mansion worlds such schools are organized in three general groups of one hundred divisions each: the schools of thinking, the schools of feeling, and the schools of doing. When you reach the constellation, there are added the schools of ethics, the schools of administration, and the schools of social adjustment. On the universe headquarters worlds you will enter the schools of philosophy, divinity, and pure spirituality.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1774.6) 160:1.14 In a continually changing world, in the midst of an evolving social order, it is impossible to maintain settled and established goals of destiny. Stability of personality can be experienced only by those who have discovered and embraced the living God as the eternal goal of infinite attainment. And thus to transfer one\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s goal from time to eternity, from earth to Paradise, from the human to the divine, requires that man shall become regenerated, converted, be born again; that he shall become the re-created child of the divine spirit; that he shall gain entrance into the brotherhood of the kingdom of heaven. All philosophies and religions which fall short of these ideals are immature. The philosophy which I teach, linked with the gospel which you preach, represents the new religion of maturity, the ideal of all future generations. And this is true because our ideal is final, infallible, eternal, universal, absolute, and infinite.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 No matter how illusory and erroneous one\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s theology, one\u8217\'92s religion may be wholly genuine and everlastingly true.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The eternal real is the good of the universe and not the time illusions of space evil. In the spiritual experience of all personalities, always is it true that the real is the good and the good is the real.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Hazards of fusion-maturity}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 When men dare to forsake a life of natural craving for one of adventurous art and uncertain logic, they must expect to suffer the consequent hazards of emotional casualties \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  conflicts, unhappiness, and uncertainties \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  at least until the time of their attainment of some degree of intellectual and emotional maturity. Discouragement, worry, and indolence are positive evidence of moral immaturity.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 It requires the lure of a great ideal to drive man on in the pursuit of a goal which is beset with difficult material problems and manifold intellectual hazards.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Forewarn all believers regarding the fringe of conflict which must be traversed by all who pass from the life as it is lived in the flesh to the higher life as it is lived in the spirit. To those who live quite wholly within either realm, there is little conflict or confusion, but all are doomed to experience more or less uncertainty during the times of transition between the two levels of living. In entering the kingdom, you cannot escape its responsibilities or avoid its obligations, but remember: The gospel yoke is easy and the burden of truth is light.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Up to Pentecost, religion had revealed only man seeking for God; since Pentecost, man is still searching for God, but there shines out over the world the spectacle of God also seeking for man and sending his spirit to dwell within him when he has found him.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  102:2.3 It is difficult to identify and analyze the factors of a religious experience, but it is not difficult to observe that such religious practitioners live and carry on as if already in the presence of the Eternal. Believers react to this temporal life as if immortality already were within their grasp. In the lives of such mortals there is a valid originality and a spontaneity of expression that forever segregate them from those of their fellows who have imbibed only the wisdom of the world. Religionists seem to live in effective emancipation from harrying haste and the painful stress of the vicissitudes inherent in the temporal currents of time; they exhibit a stabilization of personality and a tranquillity of character not explained by the laws of physiology, psychology, and sociology.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (551.7) 48:6.2 You should understand that the morontia life of an ascending mortal is really initiated on the inhabited worlds at the conception of the soul, at that moment when the creature mind of moral status is indwelt by the spirit Adjuster. And from that moment on, the mortal soul has potential capacity for supermortal function, even for recognition on the higher levels of the morontia spheres of the local universe.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 These angels are all in the chain of recorders extending from the lowest to the highest custodians of the facts of time and the truths of eternity. Some day they will teach you to seek truth as well as fact, to expand your soul as well as your mind.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1116.1) 101:9.9 Faith becomes the connection between moral consciousness and the spiritual concept of enduring reality. Religion becomes the avenue of man\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s escape from the material limitations of the temporal and natural world to the supernal realities of the eternal and spiritual world by and through the technique of salvation, the progressive morontia transformation.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Religion is the experiencing of divinity in the consciousness of a moral being of evolutionary origin; it represents true experience with eternal realities in time, the realization of spiritual satisfactions while yet in the flesh.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The way out of conflict between two opposing thought systems is clearly to choose one and relinquish the other. If you identify with your thought system, and you cannot escape this, and if you accept two thought systems which are in complete disagreement, peace of mind is impossible.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The human mind does not well stand the conflict of double allegiance. It is a severe strain on the soul to undergo the experience of an effort to serve both good and evil. The supremely happy and efficiently unified mind is the one wholly dedicated to the doing of the will of the Father in heaven. 133:7.12}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 42 Where could your peace arise but from forgiveness? The Christ in you looks only on the truth and sees no condemnation that could need forgiveness. He is at peace because He sees no sin. Identify with Him, and what has He that you have not? He is your eyes, your ears, your hands, your feet. How gentle are the sights He sees, the sounds He hears. How beautiful His hand that holds His brother's, and how lovingly He walks beside him, showing him what can be seen and heard and where he will see nothing and there is no sound to hear.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Guilt is the only need the ego has, and as long as you identify with it, guilt will remain attractive to you.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 To profess is to identify with an idea and offer the idea to others to be their own. The idea does not lessen; it becomes stronger}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The ego believes that this is what you did because it believes it is you. It follows, then, that if you identify with the ego, you must perceive yourself as guilty. Whenever you respond to your ego, you will experience guilt and you will fear punishment. The ego is quite literally a fearful thought.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 22 All unhealed healers follow the ego's plan for forgiveness in one form or another. If they are theologians, they are likely to condemn themselves, teach condemnation, and advocate a very fearful solution. Projecting condemnation onto God, they make Him appear retaliative and fear His retribution. What they have done is merely to identify with the ego and, by perceiving clearly what it does, condemn themselves because of this profound confusion. It is understandable that there has been a revolt against this concept, but to revolt against it is still to believe in it. The form of the revolt, then, is different but not the content.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 L e s s o n  261}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 God is my refuge and security.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 1 I will identify with what I think is refuge and security. I will behold myself where I perceive my strength and think I live within the citadel where I am safe and cannot be attacked. Let me today seek not security in danger, nor attempt to find my peace in murderous attack. I live in God. In Him I find my refuge and my strength. In Him is my Identity. In Him is everlasting peace. And only there will I remember who I really am.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 90 You learn first that having rests on giving and not on getting. Next you learn that you learn what you teach and that you want to learn peace. This is the condition for identifying with the Kingdom since it is the condition of the Kingdom. You have believed that you are without the Kingdom and have therefore excluded yourself from it in your belief. It is therefore essential to teach you that you must be included and that the belief that you are not is the only thing that you must exclude.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Reference to Thought Adjuster?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 91 The third step is thus one of protection for your minds, allowing you to identify only with the center, where God placed the altar to Himself. We have already said that altars are beliefs, but God and His creations are beyond belief because they are beyond question. The Voice for God speaks only for belief beyond question, which is the preparation for being without question. As long as belief in God and His Kingdom is assailed by any doubts in your minds, His perfect accomplishment is not apparent to you. This is why you must be vigilant on God's behalf. The ego speaks against His creation and therefore does engender doubt. You cannot go beyond belief until you believe fully.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Positive perception}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  Every Child of God is one  in Christ, for his Being is in Christ as Christ's is in God.  Christ's love for you is His love for His Father, which He knows  because He knows His Father's love for Him. When the Holy Spirit  has at last led you to Christ at the altar to His Father, perception  fuses into knowledge because perception has become so holy that its  transfer to holiness is merely its natural extension. Love transfers  to love without any interference, for the situations are identical.  [Only the ability to make this transfer is the product of learning.]  As you perceive more and more common elements in all  situations, the transfer of your training under the Holy Spirit's  guidance increases and becomes generalized. Gradually you learn to  apply it to everyone and everything, for its applicability is  universal. When this has been accomplished, perception and knowledge  have become so similar that they share the unification of the laws of  God.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Find a matching quote that says imprisoned soul}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1176.2) 107:0.2 The Adjusters are the actuality of the Father\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s love incarnate in the souls of men; they are the veritable promise of man\u8217\'92s eternal career imprisoned within the mortal mind; they are the essence of man\u8217\'92s perfected finaliter personality, which he can foretaste in time as he progressively masters the divine technique of achieving the living of the Father\u8217\'92s will, step by step, through the ascension of universe upon universe until he actually attains the divine presence of his Paradise Father.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Transcend}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Man\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s ability to transcend himself is the one thing which distinguishes him from the animal kingdom.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Meanings are nonexistent in the ego?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1220.1) 111:4.2 Meanings are derived from a combination of recognition and understanding. Meanings are nonexistent in a wholly sensory or material world. Meanings and values are only perceived in the inner or supermaterial spheres of human experience.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Things are time conditioned, but truth is timeless. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The more truth you know, the more truth you are, }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 the more of the past you can understand and of the future you can comprehend. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 7:1.3 Spiritual values and}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 spirit forces are real. From}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 the viewpoint of personality,}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 spirit is the soul of creation;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 matter is the shadowy}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 physical body.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1222.7) 111:6.8 It is only natural that mortal man should be harassed by feelings of insecurity as he views himself inextricably bound to nature while he possesses spiritual powers wholly transcendent to all things temporal and finite. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 This quote goes with the quote from the Course about staying behind to help our brothers. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 55:3.18 5. Mortals of Adjuster-fusion status who, upon their own petition, are temporarily exempted from translation by the order of the Personalized Adjuster of universe chieftainship in order that they may continue on the planet in certain important administrative posts.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Fusion breaks the fetters of time}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 "When man realizes that the Universal Father is his partner in eternal progression, when he fuses with the indwelling Father presence, he has, in spirit, broken the fetters of time and has already entered upon the progressions of eternity in the quest for the Universal Father."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 110:1.5 The Adjuster remains with you in all disaster and through every sickness which does not wholly destroy the mentality. But how unkind knowingly to defile or otherwise deliberately to pollute the physical body, which must serve as the earthly tabernacle of this marvelous gift from God. All physical poisons greatly retard the efforts of the Adjuster to exalt the material mind, while the mental poisons of fear, anger, envy, jealousy, suspicion, and intolerance likewise tremendously interfere with the spiritual progress of the evolving soul.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 52 It has never really entered your mind to give up every idea you ever had that opposes knowledge. You retain thousands of little scraps of meanness which prevent the Holy One from entering. Light cannot penetrate through the walls you make to block it, and it is forever unwilling to destroy what you have made. No one can see through a wall, but I can step around it. Watch your minds for the scraps of meanness or you will be unable to ask me to do so. I can help you only as our Father created us. I will love you and honor you and maintain complete respect for what you have made, but I will neither honor it nor love it unless it is true.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 This matches up with the quote about time and space hunger and fear being restraints designed into the system.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 That mind which can effect a partial abridgment of time and space, by this very act proves itself possessed of the seeds of wisdom which can effectively serve in lieu of the transcended barrier of restraint.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 This is just cool}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 114:7.13 (The cosmic reserve corps of universe-conscious citizens on Urantia now numbers over one thousand mortals whose insight of cosmic citizenship far transcends the sphere of their terrestrial abode, but I am forbidden to reveal the real nature of the function of this unique group of living human beings.)}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Many of the temporal troubles of mortal man grow out of his twofold relation to the cosmos. Man is a part of nature\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 he exists in nature\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 and yet he is able to transcend nature. Man is finite, but he is indwelt by a spark of infinity. Such a dual situation not only provides the potential for evil but also engenders many social and moral situations fraught with much uncertainty and not a little anxiety.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 This attitude of the divine nature would apparently change if the sinner finally identified himself wholly with sin just as the same mortal mind may also fully identify itself with the indwelling spirit Adjuster. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Fusion process}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 1:3.7 In the inner experience of man, mind is joined to matter. Such material-linked minds cannot survive mortal death. The technique of survival is embraced in those adjustments of the human will and those transformations in the mortal mind whereby such a God-conscious intellect gradually becomes spirit taught and eventually spirit led. This evolution of the human mind from matter association to spirit union results in the transmutation of the potentially spirit phases of the mortal mind into the morontia realities of the immortal soul. Mortal mind subservient to matter is destined to become increasingly material and consequently to suffer eventual personality extinction; mind yielded to spirit is destined to become increasingly spiritual and ultimately to achieve oneness with the surviving and guiding divine spirit and in this way to attain survival and eternity of personality existence.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 111:3.2 During the life in the flesh the evolving soul is enabled to reinforce the supermaterial decisions of the mortal mind. The soul, being supermaterial, does not of itself function on the material level of human experience. Neither can this subspiritual soul, without the collaboration of some spirit of Deity, such as the Adjuster, function above the morontia level. Neither does the soul make final decisions until death or translation divorces it from material association with the mortal mind except when and as this material mind delegates such authority freely and willingly to such a morontia soul of associated function. During life the mortal will, the personality power of decision-choice, is resident in the material mind circuits; as terrestrial mortal growth proceeds, this self, with its priceless powers of choice, becomes increasingly identified with the emerging morontia-soul entity; after death and following the mansion world resurrection, the human personality is completely identified with the morontia self. The soul is thus the embryo of the future morontia vehicle of personality identity.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Worship identify the part (me) with the whole (sonship, Supreme)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 143:7.8 Worship is the act of a part identifying itself with the Whole; the finite with the Infinite; the son with the Father; time in the act of striking step with eternity. Worship is the act of the son\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s personal communion with the divine Father, the assumption of refreshing, creative, fraternal, and romantic attitudes by the human soul-spirit.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 118:7.5 Iniquity in the finite domains reveals the transient reality of all God-unidentified selfhood. Only as a creature becomes God-identified, does he become truly real in the universes. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Spiritual volition has begun to taste liberation from the fetters of time, having achieved partial escape from time sequence, and that is because spiritual volition is self-identifying with the will of God.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 2:3.2  In the last analysis,such sin-identified individuals have destroyed themselves by becoming wholly unreal through their embrace of iniquity.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Such a sin-identified mortal would the become wholly unspiritual in nature (and therefore personally unreal) and would experience eventual extinction of being. Unreality, even incompleteness ofcreature nature, cannot exist forever in a progressingly real and increasingly spiritual universe.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 2:7.4  When man searches for truth, he pursues the divinely real.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 44:0.15 All these activities of the morontia and spirit worlds are real. To spirit beings the spirit world is a reality. To us the material world is the more unreal. The higher forms of spirits freely pass through ordinary matter. High spirits are reactive to nothing material excepting certain of the basic energies. To material beings the spirit world is more or less unreal; to spirit beings the material world is almost entirely unreal, being merely a shadow of the substance of spirit realities.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  \tab }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 This quote could be interpreted as time and matter created for the completion of the supreme if you define the atonement as the completion of the supreme.   }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 47 The acceptance of the  Atonement by everyone is only a matter of time. In fact, both time   and matter were created for this purpose. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Mind dominance over matter}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 196:3.10 The human mind does not create real values; human experience does not yield universe insight. Concerning insight, the recognition of moral values and the discernment of spiritual meanings, all that the human mind can do is to discover, recognize, Interpret, and choose. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 When you forgive your brother in theflesh, you thereby create the capacityin your own soulfor the reception of the reality of God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s forgiveness of your own misdeeds. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 116:6.1 In the evolutionary superuniverses energy-matter is dominant except in personality, where spirit through the mediation of mind is struggling for the mastery. The goal OF THE EVOLUTIONARY UNIVERSES IS THE SUBJUGATION OF ENERGY-MATTER BY MIND, the co-ordination of mind with spirit, and all of this by virtue of the creative and unifying presence of personality. Thus, in relation to personality, do physical systems become subordinate; mind systems, co-ordinate; and spirit systems, directive. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Mind dominance over matter}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 116:5.15 The spirit struggles of time and space have to do with the evolution of SPIRIT DOMINANCE OVER MATTER BY THE MEDIATION OF (PERSONAL) MIND; the physical (nonpersonal) evolution of the universes has to do with bringing cosmic energy into harmony with the equilibrium concepts of mind subject to the overcontrol of spirit. The total evolution of the entire grand universe is a matter of the PERSONALITY UNIFICATION OF THE ENERGY-CONTROLLING MIND with the spirit-co-ordinated intellect and will be revealed in the full appearance of the almighty power of theSupreme. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Mind dominance over matter}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 42:12.13 Physical, spiritual, and mindal energies, as such and in their pure states, do not fully interact as actuals of the phenomenal universes. On Paradise the three energies are co-ordinate, in Havona co-ordinated, while in the universe levels of finite activities there must be encountered all ranges of material, mindal, and spiritual dominance. In nonpersonal situations of time and space, physical energy seems to predominate,but it also appears that the more nearly spirit-mind function approaches divinity of purpose and supremacy of action, the more nearly does the spirit phase become dominant; that on the ultimate level spirit-mind may become all but completely dominant. On the absolute level spirit certainly is dominant.And from there on out through the realms of time and space, wherever a divine spirit reality is present, whenever a real spirit-mind is functioning, therealways tends to be produced a material or physical counterpart of that spiritreality. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Mind dominance over matter}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 42:12.15 Mind universally dominates matter, even as it is in turn responsive to the ultimate overcontrol of spirit. And with mortal man, only that mind which freely submits itself to the spirit direction can hope to survive the mortal time-space existence as an immortal child of the eternal spirit world of the Supreme, the Ultimate, andthe Absolute: the Infinite. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Mind dominance over matter}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 12:8.14 On Paradise the three energies, physical, mindal, and spiritual, are co-ordinate. In the evolutionary cosmos energy-matter is dominant except in personality, where spirit, through the mediation of mind, is striving for the mastery.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 There is a quote in the Course similar to this.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  In the central universe there is little need of a language; there exists perfect and well-nigh complete understanding; there, only the Gods are not fully comprehended.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 10:5.8 But I do not command language which would enable me to convey to the limited human mind the full truth and the eternal significance of the Paradise Trinity }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Words}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (84.5) 7:3.5 But how much more perfect is the superb technique of the spiritual world! If anything originates in your consciousness that is fraught with supreme spiritual value, when once you give it expression, no power in the universe can prevent its flashing directly to the Absolute Spirit Personality of all creation.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (84.6) 7:3.6 Conversely, if your supplications are purely material and wholly self-centered, there exists no plan whereby such unworthy prayers can find lodgment in the spirit circuit of the Eternal Son. The content of any petition which is not \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93spirit indited\u8221\'94 can find no place in the universal spiritual circuit; such purely selfish and material requests fall dead; they do not ascend in the circuits of true spirit values. Such words are as \u8220\'93sounding brass and a tinkling cymbal.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (85.1) 7:3.7 It is the motivating thought, the spiritual content, that validates the mortal supplication. Words are valueless.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: 21. What Is the Role of Words in Healing?1 Strictly speaking, words play no part at all in healing. The motivating factor is prayer, or asking. What you ask for, you receive. But this refers to the prayer of the heart, not to the words you use in praying. Sometimes the words and the prayer are contradictory; sometimes they agree. It does not matter. God does not understand words, for they were made by separated minds to keep them in the illusion of separation. Words can be helpful, particularly for the beginner, in helping concentration and facilitating the exclusion or at least the control of extraneous thoughts. Let us not forget, however, that words are but symbols of symbols. They are thus twice removed from reality.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Process of fusion}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (2097.2) 196:3.34 The great challenge to modern man is to achieve better communication with the divine Monitor that dwells within the human mind. Man\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s greatest adventure in the flesh consists in the well-balanced and sane effort to advance the borders of self-consciousness out through the dim realms of embryonic soul-consciousness in a wholehearted effort to reach the borderland of spirit-consciousness \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  contact with the divine presence. Such an experience constitutes God-consciousness, an experience mightily confirmative of the pre-existent truth of the religious experience of knowing God. Such spirit-consciousness is the equivalent of the knowledge of the actuality of sonship with God. Otherwise, the assurance of sonship is the experience of faith.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Identification search}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 103:7.2 True salvation is the technique of the divine evolution of the mortal mind from matter identification through the realms of morontia liaison to the high universe status of spiritual correlation. And as material intuitive instinct precedes the appearance of reasoned knowledge in terrestrial evolution, so does the manifestation of spiritual intuitive insight presage the later appearance of morontia and spirit reason and experience in the supernal program of celestial evolution, the business of transmuting the potentials of man the temporal into the actuality and divinity of man the eternal, a Paradise finaliter.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 36:5.17    ...Nonspiritual mind is either a spirit-energy manifestation or a physical-energy phenomenon. Even human mind, personal mind, has no survival qualities apart from spirit identification. Mind is a divinity bestowal, but it is not immortal when it...}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 40:5.4    ...Spirit identification constitutes the secret of personal survival and determines the destiny of spiritual ascension. And since the Thought Adjusters are the only spirits of fusion potential to be identified with man during the life in the flesh, the...}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 42:11.4 Motion and universe gravitation are twin facets of the impersonal time-space mechanism of the universe of universes. The levels of gravity response for spirit, mind, and matter are quite independent of time, but only true spirit levels of reality are independent of space (nonspatial). The higher mind levels of the universe\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the spirit-mind levels\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 may also be nonspatial, but the levels of material mind, such as human mind, are responsive to the interactions of universe gravitation, losing this response only in proportion to spirit identification. Spirit-reality levels are recognized by their spirit content, and spirituality in time and space is measured inversely to the linear-gravity response.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 54:3.2    ...Although conscious and wholehearted identification with evil (sin) is the equivalent of nonexistence (annihilation), there must always intervene between the time of such personal identification with sin and the execution of the penalty - the...}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Philosophy attempts the identification of the material segments of science with the spiritual-insight concept of the whole. Wherein philosophy fails in this attempt, revelation succeeds, affirming that the cosmic circle is universal, eternal, absolute, and infinite. This cosmos of the Infinite I AM is therefore endless, limitless, and all-inclusive\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 timeless, spaceless, and unqualified. And we bear testimony that the Infinite I AM is also the Father of Michael of Nebadon and the God of human salvation.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 One more mind bender. This is a bit abstract. One of the attributes of the eternal is a kind of endless increasing of eternity.  Somehow, eternity does not change but it increases, expands somehow.  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: What is timeless is always there, because its being is eternally changeless. IT DOES NOT CHANGE BY INCREASE, because it was forever created to increase. If you perceive it as not increasing, you do not know what it is. You also do not know what created it or Who He is. God does not reveal this to you, because it was never hidden. His light was never obscured, because it is His Will to share it. How can what is fully shared be withheld and then revealed?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 106:9.11 Sooner or later all universe personalities begin to realize that the final quest of eternity is the endless exploration of infinity, the never-ending voyage of discovery into the absoluteness of the First Source and Center. Sooner or later we all become aware that all creature growth is proportional to Father identification}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 1:5.14 God, being eternal, universal, absolute, and infinite, DOES NOT GROW IN KNOWLEDGE NOR INCREASE IN WISDOM. God does not acquire experience, as finite man might conjecture or comprehend, BUT HE DOES, within the realms of his own eternal personality, ENJOY THOSE CONTINUOUS EXPANSIONS OF SELF-REALIZATION which are in certain ways comparable to, and analogous with, the acquirement of new experience by the finite creatures of the evolutionary worlds.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 And it is not so much what mind comprehends as what mind desires to comprehend that insures survival; it is not so much what mind is like as what mind is striving to be like that constitutes spirit identification.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 111:1.6 Mind is the cosmic instrument on which the human will can play the discords of destruction, or upon which this same human will can bring forth the exquisite melodies of God identification and consequent eternal survival}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  Between the intellectual extremes of pure mechanical control and true spirit nature there intervenes that enormous group of evolving and ascending minds whose stability and tranquillity are dependent upon personality choice and spirit identification.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 And thus does the material and mortal reality of the self transcend the temporal limitations of the physical-life machine and attain a new expression and a new identification in the evolving vehicle for selfhood continuity, the morontia and immortal soul.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 116:7.5    ...Human beings are capable of making an everlasting self-identification with total and indestructible universe reality - fusion with the indwelling Thought Adjuster. Likewise does the Supreme everlastingly depend on the absolute stability of Original...}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 118:1.2    ...The personality of the mortal creature may eternalize by self-identification with the indwelling spirit through the technique of choosing to do the will of the Father. Such a consecration of will is tantamount to the realization of eternity-reality...}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 118:7.7 Subpersonal living things indicate mind activating energy-matter, first as physical controllers, and then as adjutant mind-spirits. Personality endowment comes from the Father and imparts unique prerogatives of choice to the living system. But if personality has the prerogative of exercising volitional choice of reality identification, and if this is a true and free choice, then must evolving personality also have the possible choice of becoming self-confusing, self-disrupting, and self-destroying. The possibility of cosmic self-destruction cannot be avoided if the evolving personality is to be truly free in the exercise of finite will.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 132:2.5    ...Goodness is always growing toward new levels of the increasing liberty of moral self-realization and spiritual personality attainment - the discovery of, and identification with, the indwelling Adjuster. An experience is good when it heightens the...}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 That individuals so differ in their life performances indicates, not only the varying endowments of heredity and the different influences of the environment, but also the degree of unification with the indwelling spirit of the Father which has been achieved by the self, the measure of the identification of the one with the other.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 136:2.2 When Jesus of Nazareth went down into the Jordan to be baptized, he was a mortal of the realm who had attained the pinnacle of human evolutionary ascension in all matters related to the conquest of mind and to self-identification with the spirit.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 2:7.4 When man searches for truth, he pursues the divinely real.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 2:7.6 Intellectual self-consciousness can discover the beauty of truth, its spiritual quality, not only by the philosophic consistency of its concepts, but more certainly and surely by the unerring response of the ever-present Spirit of Truth. Happiness ensues from the recognition of truth because it can be acted out; it can be lived. Disappointment and sorrow attend upon error because, not being a reality, it cannot be realized in experience. Divine truth is best known by its spiritual flavor.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Real you...Divine you... Liaison is another word for fusion}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 110:7.4 Subsequent to mortal fusion the Adjusters share your destiny and experience; they are you.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 108:6.6 And as you are the human parent, so is the Adjuster the divine parent of the real you}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 112:5.12 There is something real, something of human evolution, something additional to the Mystery Monitor, which survives death. This newly appearing entity is the soul, and it survives the death of both your physical body and your material mind. This entity is the conjoint child of the combined life and efforts of the human you in liaison with the divine you, the Adjuster.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 spirit identification}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 36:5.17 Nonspiritual mind is either a spirit-energy manifestation or a physical-energy phenomenon. Even human mind, personal mind, has no survival qualities apart from spirit identification. Mind is a divinity bestowal, but it is not immortal when it functions without spirit insight, and when it is devoid of the ability to worship and crave survival.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 40:5.4 Spirit identification constitutes the secret of personal survival and determines the destiny of spiritual ascension. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 A paradox}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 1:4.7 As a reality in human spiritual experience God is not a mystery. But when an attempt is made to make plain the realities of the spirit world to the physical minds of the material order, mastery appears: mysteries so subtle and so profound that only the faith- grasp of the God-knowing mortal can achieve the philosophic miracle of the recognition of the Infinite by the finite, the discernment of the eternal God by the evolving mortals of the material worlds of time and space.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 becoming real}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 12:9.5 Your religion is becoming real because it is emerging from the slavery of fear and the bondage of superstition. Your philosophy struggles for emancipation from dogma and tradition. Your science is engaged in the agelong contest between truth and error while it fights for deliverance from the bondage of abstraction, the slavery of mathematics, and the relative blindness of mechanistic materialism.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Projection}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 115:3.4 It is only man\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s distance from infinity that causes this concept to be expressed as one word. While infinity is on the one hand UNITY, on the other it is DIVERSITY without end or limit. Infinity, as it is observed by finite intelligences, is the maximum paradox of creature philosophy and finite metaphysics. Though man\u8217\'92s spiritual nature reaches up in the worship experience to the Father who is infinite, man\u8217\'92s intellectual comprehension capacity is exhausted by the maximum conception of the Supreme Being. Beyond the Supreme, concepts are increasingly names; less and less are they true designations of reality; more and more do they become the creature\u8217\'92s projection of finite understanding toward the superfinite}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Project}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Philosophy dare not project its interpretations of reality in the linear fashion of logic; it must never fail to reckon with the elliptic symmetry of reality and with the essential curvature of all relation concepts.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Project}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 1. The spiritual urge and philosophic pressure of religion tend to cause man to project his estimation of moral values directly outward into the affairs of his fellows\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the ethical reaction of religion.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The Adjuster's plan for your life}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 110:2.1 When Thought Adjusters indwell human minds, they bring with them the model careers, the ideal lives, as determined and foreordained by themselves and the Personalized Adjusters of Divinington, which have been certified by the Personalized Adjuster of Urantia. Thus they begin work with a definite and predetermined plan for the intellectual and spiritual development of their human subjects, but it is not incumbent upon any human being to accept this plan. You are all subjects of predestination, but it is not foreordained that you must accept this divine predestination; you are at full liberty to reject any part or all of the Thought Adjusters\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 program. It is their mission to effect such mind changes and to make such spiritual adjustments as you may willingly and intelligently authorize, to the end that they may gain more influence over the personality directionization; but under no circumstances do these divine Monitors ever take advantage of you or in any way arbitrarily influence you in your choices and decisions. The Adjusters respect your sovereignty of personality; they are always subservient to your will.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Material and spiritual reality are opposites}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 12:8.13 The goal of existence of all personalities is spirit; material manifestations are relative, and the cosmic mind intervenes between these universal opposites.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Adjuster is identity }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 49:6.11 3. Mortals of the probationary-dependent orders of ascension. The arrival of an Adjuster constitutes identity in the eyes of the universe,}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 "Even though the spirit of a Son be poured out upon all flesh, even though a Son once dwelt with you in the likeness of mortal flesh, even though the seraphim personally guard and guide you, how can any of these divine beings of the Second and Third Centers ever hope to come as near to you or to understand you as fully as the Father, who has given a part of himself to be in you, to be your real and divine, even your eternal, self?"}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Forgiveness of mercy versus love}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The forgiveness of love transcends the forgiveness of mercy. The course }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 says forgiveness is not the same as pardon. A pardon recognizes the sin }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 and sets it to the side. No compromise. smile emoticon }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 188:5.2 The forgiveness of love utterly transcends the forgiveness}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  of mercy. Mercy sets the guilt of evil-doing to one side; but love }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 destroys forever the sin and all weakness resulting therefrom.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Chapter Twenty Seven: }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The Body and the DreamIII. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The Fear of Healing}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Good cannot be returned for evil, for forgiveness does not first establish }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 sin and then forgive it. Who can say and mean, "My brother, you have }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 injured me, and yet because I am the better of the two, I pardon you my }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 hurt." His pardon and your hurt cannot exist together. One denies the }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 other and must make it false.15}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  To witness sin and yet forgive it is a paradox which reason cannot see.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  For it maintains what has been done to you deserves no pardon. And by }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 giving it, you grant your brother mercy but retain the proof he is not }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 really innocent. The sick remain accusers. They cannot forgive their }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 brothers and themselves as well. For no one in whom true forgiveness }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 reigns can suffer.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 UB 2:1.5 "No thing is new to God, and no cosmic event ever comes as a surprise; he inhabits the circle of eternity. He is without beginning or end of days. To God there is no past, present, or future; all time is present at any given moment."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 and}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 UB 2:2.1 "Even your olden prophets understood the eternal, never-beginning, never-ending, circular nature of the Universal Father. God is literally and eternally present in his universe of universes."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: Perception's laws must be reversed, because they are}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 reversals of the laws of truth. The laws of}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 truth forever will be true and cannot be reversed, yet can be seen as}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 upside-down. And this must be corrected where the illusion of reversal lies.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 On the headquarters of each  the reflective organization acts as a segregated unit; but on certain special occasions, under the direction of Majeston, all seven may and do act in universal unison, as in the event of the jubilee occasioned by the settling of an entire local universe in light and life and at the times of the millennial greetings of the Seven Supreme Executives.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Who is God the Supreme? }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Aggregations are added, systems are arranged. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Personality is associable but nontotalable}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 God the Supreme is an associable absolute. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 We as individual personalities make up God the Supreme. He cannot act apart from us. He is not a complete entity without us. He will not be complete until all of us join him.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Personality is }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Is it gods will that we function collectively as god the supreme}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 What is the supreme if it's not the sum of our parts?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Type os personality is not infinite}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Personality is associable absolute}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1226.13) 112:1.9 The type of personality bestowed upon Urantia mortals has a potentiality of seven dimensions of self-expression or person-realization. These dimensional phenomena are realizable as three on the finite level, three on the absonite level, and one on the absolute level. On subabsolute levels this seventh or totality dimension is experiencible as the fact of personality. This supreme dimension is an associable absolute and, while not infinite, is dimensionally potential for subinfinite penetration of the absolute.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Personality can be added to spirit}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 In aggregations parts are added, in systems parts are arranged}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1225.12) 112:0.12 10. Personality is unique, absolutely unique: It is unique in time and space; it is unique in eternity and on Paradise; it is unique when bestowed \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  there are no duplicates; it is unique during every moment of existence; it is unique in relation to God \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  he is no respecter of persons, but neither does he add them together, for they are nonaddable \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  they are associable but nontotalable.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Having appeared in response to the Father\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s will, personality will attain Deity destiny, but man must choose whether or not he will be present at the attainment of such destiny. In default of such choice, personality attains experiential Deity directly, becoming a part of the Supreme Being. The cycle is foreordained, but man\u8217\'92s participation therein is optional, personal, and experiential}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 When the continued embrace of sin by the associated mind culminates in complete self-identification with iniquity, then upon the cessation of life, upon cosmic dissolution, such an isolated personality is absorbed into the oversoul of creation, becoming a part of the evolving experience of the Supreme Being.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 But if a creature rejects the eternal career, that part of the Supreme which was dependent on this creature\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s choice experiences inescapable delay, a deprivation which must be compensated by substitutional or collateral experience; as for the personality of the nonsurvivor, it is absorbed into the oversoul of creation, becoming a part of the Deity of the Supreme.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 What the Trnity is to God the Supreme, the Aduster is to evolving man.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 None of us entertain a satisfactory concept of what will happen when the grand universe (the seven superuniverses as dependent on Havona) becomes entirely settled in light and life. That event will undoubtedly be the most profound occurrence in the annals of eternity since the appearance of the central universe. There are those who hold that the Supreme Being himself will emerge from the Havona mystery enshrouding his spirit person and will become residential on the headquarters of the seventh superuniverse as the almighty and experiential sovereign of the perfected creations of time and space. But we really do not know.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Similar to adjuster fusion}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The grand universe contains the possibility of, and ever seeks for, complete unification, and this grows out of the fact that this cosmic existence is a consequence of the creative acts and the power mandates of the Paradise Trinity, which is unqualified unity. This very trinitarian unity is expressed in the finite cosmos in the Supreme, whose reality becomes increasingly apparent as the universes attain to the maximum level of Trinity identification.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Fusion}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 A human ascender can find the Father; God is existential and therefore real, irrespective of the status of experience in the total universe. But no single ascender will ever find the Supreme until all ascenders have reached that maximum universe maturity which qualifies them simultaneously to participate in this discovery.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 more fusion}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The attainment of perfected self-realization by all personalities plus the attainment of perfected equilibrium throughout the universes equals the attainment of the Supreme and witnesses the liberation of all finite reality from the limitations of incomplete existence. Such an exhaustion of all finite potentials yields the completed attainment of the Supreme and may be otherwise defined as the completed evolutionary actualization of the Supreme Being himself.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 more fusion:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The completed realization of all finite potentials equals the completion of the realization of all evolutionary experience. This suggests the final emergence of the Supreme as an almighty Deity presence in the universes. We believe that the Supreme, in this stage of development, will be as discretely personalized as is the Eternal Son, as concretely powerized as is the Isle of Paradise, as completely unified as is the Conjoint Actor, and all of this within the limitations of the finite possibilities of Supremacy at the culmination of the present universe age.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 sum of its parts}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The parts and individuals of the grand universe evolve as a reflection of the total evolution of the Supreme, while in turn the Supreme is the synthetic cumulative total of all grand universe evolution. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93The total evolution of THE ENTIRE GRAND UNIVERSE is a}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 matter of the personality unification of the energy-controlling mind with the}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 spirit-co-ordinated intellect and will be revealed in the full appearance of}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 the ALMIGHTY POWER OF THE SUPREME.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 end of time quote}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 hence no part of the cosmic whole can find real stability until the fullness of time witnesses the material completion of the seven superuniverses..}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 end of time quote, whole "person"}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The completed realization of all finite potentials equals the completion of the realization of all evolutionary experience. This suggests the final emergence of the Supreme as an almighty Deity presence in the universes. We believe that the Supreme, in this stage of development, will be as discretely personalized as is the Eternal Son, as concretely powerized as is the Isle of Paradise, as completely unified as is the Conjoint Actor, and all of this within the limitations of the finite possibilities of Supremacy at the culmination of the present universe age.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 fusion quote}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 So in a sense, the Supreme will fuse with the trinity like humans fuse with the thought adjuster:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 "And as it is with the parts, so it is with the whole; the spirit person of Supremacy requires the evolutionary power of the Almighty to achieve completion of Deity and to attain destiny of Trinity association. "}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 fusion quote}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The cosmic reality variously designated as the Supreme Being, God the Supreme, and the Almighty Supreme, is the complex and universal synthesis of the emerging phases of all finite realities.The far-flung diversification of eternal energy, divine spirit, and universal mind attains finite culmination in the evolution of the Supreme, who is the sum total of all finite growth, self-realized on deity levels of finite maximum completion.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 end of time quote}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 We have long held, however, that the present growth which characterizes creature existence in the present universe age is a function of the Supreme. We equally hold that this kind of growth is peculiar to the age of the growth of the Supreme, and that it will terminate with the completion of the growth of the Supreme.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 end of time quote}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 There will come an end sometime to the growth of the Supreme; his status will achieve completion (in the energy-spirit sense). This termination of the evolution of the Supreme will also witness the ending of creature evolution as a part of Supremacy.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The Supreme culminates personality}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Supreme personality in the culminating or experiential totaling sense.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Ester quote}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Consider that the Almighty Supreme is the power of the universe Creators, the Ancients of Days, and the Master Spirits (if I remember correctly). This suggests a synergy of several personalities make up one being, the Almighty.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Spirit influences appear as one to us:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 There are many spiritual influences, and they are all as one. Even the work of the Thought Adjusters, though independent of all other influences, unvaryingly coincides with the spirit ministry of the combined influences of the Infinite Spirit and a local universe Mother Spirit. As these spiritual presences operate in the lives of Urantians, they cannot be segregated. In your minds and upon your souls they function as one spirit, notwithstanding their diverse origins. And as this united spiritual ministration is experienced, it becomes to you the influence of the Supreme, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93who is ever able to keep you from failing and to present you blameless before your Father on high.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 My Comments }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 This was my thought process this morning. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 :"Through Havona you discover God the Supreme. On Paradise you find him as a PERSON,"}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Does this mean on Paradise we find him as the Universal Father? }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 "The Supreme Being functions primarily in the central universe as a spirit personality; secondarily in the grand universe as God the Almighty,"}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Is this correct?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 On Paradise = Universal Father}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 On Havona = God the Supreme}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 "functional mind of the Supreme Being."}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Seven Super Universes = God the Almighty}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 There seems to be a parallel between how we develop around the spirit nucleus of the thought adjuster and how God the Almighty is developing around the nucleus of the central universe.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 "Supreme, whose reality becomes increasingly apparent as the universes attain to the maximum level of Trinity identification."}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 "God the Supreme as a person existed in Havona before the creation of the seven superuniverses, but he functioned only on spiritual levels."}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 "active functional mind of the Supreme Being."}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  "2. The mind forces are convergent in the Infinite Spirit; the differential and divergent cosmic mind in the Seven Master Spirits; the factualizing mind of the Supreme as a time-space experience in Majeston."}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 "Majeston appeared and ever since has focalized the cosmic presence of the Supreme Mind,"}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 We are in essence a mini supreme being}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 He has a thought adjuster (trinity), a spirit personality, a mind (Majeston), a body (seven super universes). }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 So The Supreme Being has a mind from the Infinite Spirit, the seven super universes as its body, a spirit personality living in Havona, and its spirit nucleus is the Universal Father. Probably an over simplification.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (culminates in experiential totaling sense), }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  notes from Paper 116 the almighty supreme}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Unqualified Paradise Deity is incomprehensible to the evolving creatures of time and space. . Eternity and infinity connote a level of deity reality which time-space creatures cannot comprehend. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Therefore does Paradise Deity attenuate and otherwise qualify the extra-Paradise personalizations of divinity, thus bringing into existence the Supreme Creators and their associates, }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The finite domains of energy and spirit are literally held together by the mind presences of the Conjoint Actor.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 This is true from the Creative Spirit in a local universe through the Reflective Spirits }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The mind circuits emanating from these varied intelligence focuses represent the cosmic arena of creature choice}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Mind is the flexible reality which creatures and Creators can so readily manipulate; it is the vital link connecting matter and spirit. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Does this quote go with the course quote below it?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 UB - Mind unifies spirit causations with energy reactions;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM - Miracles come from the  below or subconscious level. Revelations come from the above or  superconscious level. The conscious level is in between and reacts to  either sub- or superconscious impulses in varying ratios.  Consciousness is the level which engages in the world and is capable  of responding to both. Having no impulses from itself and being  primarily a mechanism for inducing response, it can be very  wrong.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Revelation induces  complete but temporary suspension of doubt and fear. It represents  the original form of communication between God and His Souls,  involving an extremely personal sense of closeness to creation which  man tries to find in physical relationships. Physical closeness   cannot achieve this. The subconscious impulses properly induce  miracles, which are genuinely interpersonal and result in real  closeness to others. This can be misunderstood by a personally  willful consciousness as impulses toward physical gratification.38 Revelation unites Souls  directly with God. Miracles unite minds directly with each other.  Neither emanates from consciousness, but both are experienced  there. This is essential since consciousness is the state which  induces action, though it does not inspire it. Man is free to  believe what he chooses, and what he does attests to what he  believes. The deeper levels of the subconscious always contain  the impulse to miracles, but man is free to fill its more superficial  levels, which are closer to consciousness, with the impulses of this  world and to identify himself with them. This results in   denying himself access to the miracle level underneath. In his  actions, then, his relationships also become superficial, and  miracle-inspired relating becomes impossible.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Human consciousness rests gently upon the electrochemical mechanism below and delicately touches the spirit-morontia energy system above.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 the Master Spirits joined with the ancestral Trinity in the cocreation of the forty-nine Reflective Spirits}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The bifurcation of energy and spirit (stemming from the conjoint presence of the Eternal Son and the Paradise Isle) was symbolized in the superuniverse sense when the Seven Master Spirits unitedly engaged in their first act of collective creation. This episode witnessed the appearance of the Seven Supreme Power Directors. Concomitant therewith the spiritual circuits of the Master Spirits contrastively differentiated from the physical activities of power director supervision, and immediately did the cosmic mind appear as a new factor co-ordinating matter and spirit.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 In the final analysis, all energy responds to mind, and the physical controllers are the children of the mind God, who is the activator of Paradise pattern.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The spirit struggles of time and space have to do with the evolution of spirit dominance over matter by the mediation of (personal) mind; the physical (nonpersonal) evolution of the universes has to do with bringing cosmic energy into harmony with the equilibrium concepts of mind subject to the overcontrol of spirit.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 In the evolutionary superuniverses energy-matter is dominant except in personality, where spirit through the mediation of mind is struggling for the mastery. The goal of the evolutionary universes is the subjugation of energy-matter by mind, the co-ordination of mind with spirit, and all of this by virtue of the creative and unifying presence of personality.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 On absolute levels, energy and spirit are one. But the moment departure is made from such absolute levels, difference appears, and as energy and spirit move spaceward from Paradise, the gulf between them widens until in the local universes they have become quite divergent. They are no longer identical, neither are they alike, and mind must intervene to interrelate them.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 That energy can be directionized by the action of controller personalities discloses the responsiveness of energy to mind action. That mass can be stabilized through the action of these same controlling entities indicates the responsiveness of mass to the order-producing presence of mind. And that spirit itself in volitional personality can strive through mind for the mastery of energy-matter discloses the potential unity of all finite creation.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 In a human being the mechanism of physical life is responsive, in part, to the dictates of (personal) mind. This very mind may, in turn, become dominated by the leadings of purposive spirit,and the result of such evolutionary development is the production of a new child of the Supreme, a new personal unification of the several kinds of cosmic reality.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 On Paradise, monota and spirit are as one \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  indistinguishable except by name. In Havona, matter and spirit, while distinguishably different, are at the same time innately harmonious. In the seven superuniverses, however, there is great divergence; there is a wide gulf between cosmic energy and divine spirit}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Does this agree with Course? Healing? Power of mind?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 P.140 - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u167\'A71 As the mind of any personality in the universe becomes more spiritual--Godlike--it becomes less responsive to material gravity. Reality, measured by physical-gravity response, is the antithesis of reality as determined by quality of spirit content. Physical-gravity action is a quantitative determiner of nonspirit energy; spiritual-gravity action is the qualitative measure of the living energy of divinity.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Power of mind}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 P.140 - \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u167\'A76 1. Matter. Organized energy which is subject to linear gravity except as it is modified by motion and conditioned by mind.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Power of mind}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 And the final fruits of all finite growth are: power controlled through mind by spirit by virtue of the unifying and creative presence of personality. The culminating consequence of all this growth is the Supreme Being.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Said Jesus: \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93I am the living way,\u8221\'94 and so he is the living way from the material level of self-consciousness to the spiritual level of God-consciousness. And even as he is this living way of ascension from the self to God, so is the Supreme the living way from finite consciousness to transcendence of consciousness, even to the insight of absonity.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Space Time Subject to choice}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Why do the choices we make have an affect on our morontia soul?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Why does our mind have the power to determine whether we fuse or not?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Is time and space subject to the choices we make. Is space and time a belief system?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The space we live in is the creation of our mother spirit. She is also the source of our mind. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Perception vs Knowledge Think of perception as relative reality, knowledge as absolute reality}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  (1295.2) 118:1.2 The personality of the mortal creature may eternalize by self-identification with the indwelling spirit through the technique of choosing to do the will of the Father. Such a consecration of will is tantamount to the realization of eternity-reality of purpose. This means that the purpose of the creature has become fixed with regard to the succession of moments; stated otherwise, that the succession of moments will witness no change in creature purpose. A million or a billion moments makes no difference. Number has ceased to have meaning with regard to the creature\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s purpose. Thus does creature choice plus God\u8217\'92s choice eventuate in the eternal realities of the never-ending union of the spirit of God and the nature of man in the everlasting service of the children of God and of their Paradise Father.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Fusion - Knowledge is whole when Supreme is actualized?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The face of Christ has to be seen before the memory of God can return. The reason is obvious. Seeing the face of Christ involves perception. No one can look on knowledge. But the face of Christ is the great symbol of forgiveness.  It is salvation. It is the symbol of the real world. Whoever looks on this no longer sees the world. He is as near to Heaven as is possible outside the gate. Yet from this gate it is no more than just a step inside. It is the final step. And this we leave to God.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The next two quotes are Jesus words restated}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1439.3) 130:7.5 Animals do not sense time as does man, and even to man, because of his sectional and circumscribed view, time appears as a succession of events; but as man ascends, as he progresses inward, the enlarging view of this event procession is such that it is discerned more and more in its wholeness. That which formerly appeared as a succession of events then will be viewed as a whole and perfectly related cycle; in this way will circular simultaneity increasingly displace the onetime consciousness of the linear sequence of events.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Great quote for course attitude on time and space}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1439.6) 130:7.8 The time-space concept of a mind of material origin is destined to undergo successive enlargements as the conscious and conceiving personality ascends the levels of the universes. When man attains the mind intervening between the material and the spiritual planes of existence, his ideas of time-space will be enormously expanded both as to quality of perception and quantity of experience. The enlarging cosmic conceptions of an advancing spirit personality are due to augmentations of both depth of insight and scope of consciousness. And as personality passes on, upward and inward, to the transcendental levels of Deity-likeness, the time-space concept will increasingly approximate the timeless and spaceless concepts of the Absolutes. Relatively, and in accordance with transcendental attainment, these concepts of the absolute level are to be envisioned by the children of ultimate destiny.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Philosophy dare not project its interpretations of reality in the linear fashion of logic; it must never fail to reckon with the elliptic symmetry of reality and with the essential curvature of all relation concepts.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Quotes from letter written by Ken}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Again, Jesus does not speak in words. To say it differently and succinctly here, his is the content, our minds (and brains) supply the form. Therefore, Helen\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s decision-making mind identified itself with the non-ego presence that is in everyone. This non-judgmental thought system of love was represented for her by Jesus, as it is for so many of us. Her mind took that non-specific love and translated it into words, in much the same way as our brains translate the upside-down image cast on the retina into right-side-up perceptions.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Returning to this important point, there is a prominent idea that what Helen took down are Jesus\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 literal words, and are therefore sacred and should never have been altered. This is as patently absurd as the lady who wrote to me after the second (and numbered) edition was published, accusing me of changing Jesus\u8217\'92 course by adding numbers to it.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The higher mind levels of the universe \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  the spirit-mind levels \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  may also be nonspatial, but the levels of material mind, such as human mind, are responsive to the interactions of universe gravitation, losing this response only in proportion to spirit identification. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1303.2) 118:9.1 "Time and space are a conjoined mechanism of the master universe."}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1303.6) 118:9.5 "Mechanisms are the products of mind, creative mind acting on and in cosmic potentials."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 If mechanism is created by mind, does that mean time and space are subject to belief?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Spirit-reality levels are recognized by their spirit content, and spirituality in time and space is measured inversely to the linear-gravity response.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 true value of a single personality}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Any isolated action of the personal parts of the finite is comparatively irrelevant to the eventual appearance of the Supreme Whole, but the whole is nonetheless dependent on the total acts of the manifold parts. The personality of the individual mortal is insignificant in the face of the total of Supremacy}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1113.3) 101:6.14 6. Salvation from time, the achievement of an eternal life of unending progression in God-recognition and God-service.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1113.4) 101:6.15 7. Salvation from the finite, the perfected oneness with Deity in and through the Supreme by which the creature attempts the transcendental discovery of the Ultimate on the postfinaliter levels of the absonite.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 at the end of time}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 It is conjectured that at this far-distant time the spirit person of the Supreme and attained power of the Almighty will have achieved co-ordinate development, and that both, as unified in and by the Supreme Mind, will factualize as the Supreme Being, a completed actuality in the universes \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  an actuality which will be observable by all creature intelligences, reacted to by all created energies, co-ordinated in all spiritual entities, and experienced by all universe personalities.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ....the entire grand universe will function as a perfected whole.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The relationship between the finite cosmic mind and the divine absolute mind appears to be evolving in the experiential mind of the Supreme. We are taught that, in the dawn of time, this experiential mind was bestowed upon the Supreme by the Infinite Spirit, and we conjecture that certain features of the phenomenon of reflectivity can be accounted for only by postulating the activity of the Supreme Mind}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The Supreme Being is the unification of three phases of Deity reality: }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 God the Supreme, the spiritual unification of certain finite aspects of the Paradise Trinity;}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The Almighty Supreme, the power unification of the grand universe Creators; }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 and the Supreme Mind, the individual contribution of the Third Source and Center and his co-ordinates to the reality of the Supreme Being}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Close, but I think mainly as an}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 analogy Brian. The spirit personality of God the Supreme is directly derived}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 from the Paradise Trinity, "for the Trinity is original Deity while the}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Supreme is derived Deity." [UB 115:4:1 (1263:7)] God the Supreme depends}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 on the Trinity for his personal and spirit nature. Prior to the}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 sometime-to-be-completed "power-personality synthesis of the Paradise}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Deities in the experiential universes of time and space", the}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 "perfect and symmetrical spirit nature of the Supreme Being" is}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 revealed in the spirit person of God the Supreme. [UB 14:6:23 (161:10)]}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Yes God the Supreme gets his}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 personality from the Paradise trinity. And we get our personality from or}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 through the Supreme (synthesized). If we fail to fuse, our personality returns}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 to the supreme. If we fuse we make up the cumulative total of The Almighty}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Supreme, including cumulative personality.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 If we fail to fuse:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the unique PERSONALITY OF A NONASCENDER RETURNS TO THE SUPREME as a drop of water returns to the sea.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 If we fuse, Supreme personality in the EXPERIENTIAL TOTALING SENSE:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Paradise personality in the highest sense, Creator personality in the universe sense,}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 mortal personality in the human sense, SUPREME PERSONALITY IN THE CULMINATING OR EXPERIENTIAL TOTALING SENSE.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Supreme is the sum total of all finite growth:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93The cosmic reality variously designated as the Supreme Being, God the Supreme,}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 and the Almighty Supreme, is the complex and universal synthesis of the}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 emerging phases of all finite realities. The far-flung diversification of}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 eternal energy, divine spirit, and universal mind attains FINITE CULMINATION IN}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 THE EVOLUTION OF THE SUPREME, WHO IS THE SUM TOTAL OF ALL FINITE GROWTH,}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 self-realized on deity levels of finite maximum completion.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 An end of Supreme and creature evolution (end of time):}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 There will come an end}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 sometime to the growth of the Supreme; his status will achieve completion (in}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 the energy-spirit sense). This termination of the evolution of the Supreme will}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 also witness the ENDING OF CREATURE EVOLUTION AS A PART OF SUPREMACY.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Something happens simultaneously, similar to fusion?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93God the Father can be found by any individual who has attained the divine level of}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Godlikeness, but God the Supreme will NEVER BE PERSONALLY DISCOVERED by any one}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 creature until that far-distant time when, through the universal attainment of}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 perfection, ALL CREATURES WILL SIMULTANEOUSLY FIND HIM.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Master son as supreme}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (234.3) 21:0.3 These primary Paradise Sons are personalized as Michaels. As they go forth from Paradise to found their universes, they are known as Creator Michaels. When settled in supreme authority, they are called Master Michaels. Sometimes we refer to the sovereign of your universe of Nebadon as Christ Michael. Always and forever do they reign after the \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93order of Michael,\u8221\'94 that being the designation of the first Son of their order and nature.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (238.2) 21:3.8 4. Supreme sovereignty \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  the settled authority following the completion of the seventh bestowal. In Nebadon, supreme sovereignty dates from the completion of Michael\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s bestowal on Urantia. It has existed just slightly over nineteen hundred years of your planetary time.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (238.9) 21:3.15 Before the completion of the bestowal career a Creator Son rules with certain self-imposed limitations of sovereignty, but subsequent to his finished bestowal service he rules by virtue of his actual experience in the form and likeness of his manifold creatures. When a Creator has seven times sojourned among his creatures, when the bestowal career is finished, then is he supremely settled in universe authority; he has become a Master Son, a sovereign and supreme ruler.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (238.10) 21:3.16 The technique of obtaining supreme sovereignty over a local universe involves the following seven experiential steps:}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (241.2) 21:5.8 The Master Michaels are supreme in their own local universes when once they have been installed as sovereign rulers. The few limitations upon their rule are those inherent in the cosmic pre-existence of certain forces and personalities. Otherwise these Master Sons are supreme in authority, responsibility, and administrative power in their respective universes; they are as Creators and Gods, supreme in virtually all things. There is no penetration beyond their wisdom regarding the functioning of a given universe.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 How about these quotes?}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia quote: "When a Creator has seven times sojourned among his creatures, when the bestowal career is finished, then is he supremely settled in universe authority; he has become a Master Son, a sovereign and supreme ruler."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia quote: "These primary Paradise Sons are personalized as Michaels. As they go forth from Paradise to found their universes, they are known as Creator Michaels. When settled in supreme authority, they are called Master Michaels. Sometimes we refer to the sovereign of your universe of Nebadon as Christ Michael. Always and forever do they reign after the \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93order of Michael,\u8221\'94 that being the designation of the first Son of their order and nature."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  JCIM quote: "The Holy One shares my trust and always approves my Atonement decisions because my will is never out of accord with His. I have told you before that I am in charge of the whole Atonement. This is only because I completed my part in it as a man and can now complete it through other men. My chosen receiving and sending channels cannot fail because I will lend them my strength as long as theirs is wanting."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Steffani Murray UB:131:4.7 God is our Father, the earth our mother, and the universe our birthplace. Without God the soul is a prisoner; to know God releases the soul. By meditation on God, by union with him, there comes deliverance from the illusions of evil and ultimate salvation from all material fetters. When man shall roll up space as a piece of leather, then will come the end of evil because man has found God. O God, save us from the threefold ruin of hell \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  lust, wrath, and avarice! O soul, gird yourself for the spirit struggle of immortality! When the end of mortal life comes, hesitate not to forsake this body for a more fit and beautiful form and to awake in the realms of the Supreme and Immortal, where there is no fear, sorrow, hunger, thirst, or death. To know God is to cut the cords of death. The God-knowing soul rises in the universe like the cream appears on top of the milk. We worship God, the all-worker, the Great Soul, who is ever seated in the heart of his creatures. And they who know that God is enthroned in the human heart are destined to become like him \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  immortal. Evil must be left behind in this world, but virtue follows the soul to heaven.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ACIM T-13 I 3:5 As you look upon yourself and judge what you do honestly, you may be tempted to wonder how you can be guiltless. Yet consider this: You are not guiltless in time, but in eternity. You have 'sinned' in the past, but there is no past. Always has no direction. Time seems to go in one direction, but when you reach its end it will roll up like a long carpet spread along the past behind you, and will disappear. As long as you believe the Son of God is guilty you will walk along this carpet, believing that it leads to death. And the journey will seem long and cruel and senseless, for so it is.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The mechanism of time: }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The spirit liberates, and the mechanism limits, the function of will. Imperfect choice, uncontrolled by mechanism, unidentified with spirit, is dangerous and unstable. Mechanical dominance insures stability at the expense of progress; spirit alliance liberates choice from the physical level and at the same time assures the divine stability produced by augmented universe insight and increased cosmic comprehension.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Danger of liberation from mechanism:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The great danger that besets the creature is that, in achieving liberation from the fetters of the life mechanism, he will fail to compensate this loss of stability by effecting a harmonious working liaison with spirit. Creature choice, when relatively liberated from mechanical stability, may attempt further self-liberation independent of greater spirit identification.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Mechanisms produced by higher minds function to liberate their creative sources but to some degree unvaryingly limit the action of all subordinate intelligences. To the creatures of the universes this limitation becomes apparent as the mechanism of the universes. Man does not have unfettered free will; there are limits to his range of choice, but within the radius of this choice his will is relatively sovereign.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Limits of time by design}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Is the course teaching us to create a spirit alliance to liberate us from the fetters of the material life mechanism?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1301.8) 118:8.3 The spirit liberates, and the mechanism limits, the function of will. Imperfect choice, uncontrolled by mechanism, unidentified with spirit, is dangerous and unstable. Mechanical dominance insures stability at the expense of progress; spirit alliance liberates choice from the physical level and at the same time assures the divine stability produced by augmented universe insight and increased cosmic comprehension.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Is this the kind of danger the course is warning us about?  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1302.1) 118:8.4 The great danger that besets the creature is that, in achieving liberation from the fetters of the life mechanism, he will fail to compensate this loss of stability by effecting a harmonious working liaison with spirit. Creature choice, when relatively liberated from mechanical stability, may attempt further self-liberation independent of greater spirit identification.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The whole principle of biologic evolution makes it impossible for primitive man to appear on the inhabited worlds with any large endowment of self-restraint. Therefore does the same creative design which purposed evolution likewise provide those external restraints of time and space, hunger and fear, which effectively circumscribe the subspiritual choice range of such uncultured creatures.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1217.2) 111:1.7 Evolutionary mind is only fully stable and dependable when manifesting itself upon the two extremes of cosmic intellectuality \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  the wholly mechanized and the entirely spiritualized. Between the intellectual extremes of pure mechanical control and true spirit nature there intervenes that enormous group of evolving and ascending minds whose stability and tranquillity are dependent upon personality choice and spirit identification.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 With your consent, this faithful pilot will safely carry you across the barriers of time and the handicaps of space to the very source of the divine mind and on beyond, even to the Paradise Father of Adjusters.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Course parallels to above:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM Some of the later parts of the course rest too heavily on these earlier sections not to require their study. You will also need them for preparation. Without this, you may become much too fearful when the unexpected does occur to make constructive use of it. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM 3 Some of the later steps in this course, however, do involve a more direct approach to God Himself. It would be most unwise to start on these steps without careful preparation or awe will be confused with fear, and the experience will be more traumatic than beatific. Healing is of God in the end. The means are being carefully explained to you. Revelation may occasionally reveal the end to you, but to reach it the means are needed.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 while such bestowals unfailingly reveal to the creatures themselves the Paradise path of divinity attainment}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Fail the supreme?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  And so the decision awaits each of you as it once awaited each of us: Will you fail the God of time, who is so dependent upon the decisions of the finite mind? will you fail the Supreme personality of the universes by the slothfulness of animalistic retrogression? will you fail the great brother of all creatures, who is so dependent on each creature? can you allow yourself to pass into the realm of the unrealized when before you lies the enchanting vista of the universe career \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  the divine discovery of the Paradise Father and the divine participation in the search for, and the evolution of, the God of Supremacy?}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Time quotes}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Me: The course says time was created after the fall as a learning device and will not be needed after the lesson has been learned. This contradicts the UB. What did occur at the time of the rebellion, and the Adamic default that might have change our perception of time so dramatically. Is that what the course is trying to correct? The course says Adam fell asleep and nowhere does it say there was ever an awakening. Jesus uses the stories in the Bible to teach Helen and Bill. He uses only perception they are familiar with. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The purpose of time is to enable man to learn to use it  constructively. Time is thus a teaching device and a means to an end.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The miracle is a learning  device which lessens the need for time.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The miracle thus has the  unique property of shortening time }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Time is inconceivable  without change, yet holiness does not change.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The shadow voices do not  change the laws of time or of eternity. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  Do not project this fear to time, for time is not the  enemy that you perceive. Time is as neutral as the body is except in  terms of what you see it for.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The ego has a very strange  notion of time, and it is with this notion that your questioning  might well begin.The ego invests heavily in the past and in the end  believes that the past is the only aspect of time that is  meaningful.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 It is evident that the Holy Spirit's  perception of time is the exact opposite of the ego's. The reason  is equally clear, for they perceive the goal of time as diametrically  opposed.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The Holy Spirit interprets   time's purpose as rendering the need for it unnecessary. Thus  does He regard the function of time as temporary, serving only His  teaching function, which is temporary by definition. His  emphasis is therefore on the only aspect of time which can  extend to the infinite, for now is the closest approximation  of eternity which this world offers. It is in the reality of  now, without past or future, that the beginning of the  appreciation of eternity lies. For only now is here, and   it presents the opportunities for the holy encounters in which  salvation can be found.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 *This is a great paragraph to go with the UB "salvation from time" quote.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The ego, on the other  hand, regards the function of time as one of extending itself in  place of eternity, for like the Holy Spirit, the ego interprets  the goal of time as its own. The continuity of past and future under   its direction is the only purpose the ego perceives in time,  and it closes over the present so that no gap in its own  continuity can occur. Its continuity, then, would keep  you in time, while the Holy Spirit would release you from it.  It is His interpretation of the means of salvation which you  must learn to accept if you would share His goal of salvation for  you.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The Atonement is in   time but not for time. Being in you, it is eternal. What holds  remembrance of God cannot be bound by time.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 To learn to separate out this  single second and begin to experience it as timeless, is to begin to  experience yourself as not separate.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 A holy relationship is a  means of saving time. One instant spent together restores the  universe to both of you.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 To do anything  involves the body. And if you recognize you need do nothing, you have  withdrawn the body's value from your mind. Here is the quick and  open door through which you slip past centuries of effort and escape  from time. This is the way in which sin loses all attraction right  now. For here is time denied and past and future gone.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Me: Guilt preserves time, forgiveness shortens time. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Guilt feelings are the preservers of time.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 To say that time is temporary is merely redundant. We have repeatedly said that time is a learning device which will be abolished when it is no longer useful. The Holy Spirit, Who speaks for God in time, also knows that time is meaningless. He reminds you of this in every passing moment of time because it is His special function to return you to eternity and remain to bless your creations there.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Time is a creation of the Mind per the UB:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The Holy Spirit must perceive time and  reinterpret it into the timeless. The mind must be led into eternity through time because, having made time, it is capable of  perceiving its opposite.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The Holy Spirit must work  through opposites because He must work with and for a mind that   is in opposition. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 God gives special gifts to His teachers because they have a  special role in His plan for Atonement. Their specialness is, of  course, only temporary\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 set in time as a means of leading out of   time. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 They come from all over the  world. They come from all religions and from no religion. They are  the ones who have answered. The Call is universal. It goes on all the   time everywhere. It calls for teachers to speak for it and redeem the  world. Many hear it, but few will answer. But it is all a matter of   time. Everyone will answer in the end, but the end can be a long,  long way off. It is because of this that the plan of the teachers was  established. Their function is to save time. Each one begins as a  single light, but with the Call at its center, it is a light that  cannot be limited. And each one saves a thousand years of time as the  world judges it. To the Call itself, time has no meaning.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 There is a course for every  teacher of God. The form of the course varies greatly.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Me: The real you: }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  It does  not matter who the teacher was before he heard the Call. He has  become a savior by his answering. He has seen someone else as  himself. He has therefore found his own salvation and the salvation  of the world. In his rebirth is the world reborn.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 This is a manual for a  special curriculum, intended for teachers of a special form of the  universal course. There are many thousands of other forms, all with  the same outcome. They merely save time. Yet it is time alone that  winds on wearily, and the world is very tired now. It is old and worn  and without hope.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Me: Similar to the UB quote "roll up space"}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Yet consider this:   You are not guiltless in time, but in eternity. You   have "sinned" in the past, but there is no  past. Always has no direction. Time seems to go in one  direction, but when you reach its end, it will roll up like a long  carpet which has spread along the past behind you and will disappear.  As long as you believe the Son of God is guilty, you will walk along  this carpet, believing that it leads to death. And the journey will  seem long and cruel and senseless, for so it is.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Associable absolute}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 search associable, associate, associative }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 UB quote: On attained experiential levels all personality orders or values are associable and even cocreational. Even God and man can coexist in a unified personality, as is so exquisitely demonstrated in the present status of Christ Michael \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  Son of Man and Son of God.(8.4) 0:5.4 All subinfinite orders and phases of personality are associative attainables and are potentially cocreational. The prepersonal, the personal, and the superpersonal are all linked together by mutual potential of co-ordinate attainment, progressive achievement, and cocreational capacity. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (547.1) 48:3.16 These custodians of the transition phases of ascendant life are supreme in the management of morontia affairs. They were created for this work, and pending the factualization of the Supreme Being, always will they remain Morontia Companions; never do they perform other duties.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 No act of good is ever wholly lost; it may be long thwarted but never wholly annulled, and it is eternally potent in proportion to the divinity of its motivation.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (556.9) 48:7.9 7. Blind and unforeseen accidents do not occur in the cosmos. Neither do the celestial beings assist the lower being who refuses to act upon his light of truth.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 In the mortal life, paths of differential conduct are continually opening and closing, and during the times when choice is possible the human personality is constantly deciding between these many courses of action. Temporal volition is linked to time, and it must await the passing of time to find opportunity for expression. Spiritual volition has begun to taste liberation from the fetters of time, having achieved partial escape from time sequence, and that is because spiritual volition is self-identifying with the will of God.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 but these are not the eternal foundations upon which to build the immortal personality which must transcend space, vanquish time, and achieve the eternal destiny of divine perfection and finaliter service.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 30:1.101 The fragmentations of the premind spirit of the Third Source and Center, though hardly comparable to the Father fragments, should be here recorded. Such entities differ very greatly from Adjusters; they do not as such dwell on Spiritington, nor do they as such traverse the mind-gravity circuits; neither do they indwell mortal creatures during the life in the flesh. They are not prepersonal in the sense that the Adjusters are, but such fragments of premind spirit are bestowed upon certain of the surviving mortals, and fusion therewith constitutes them Spirit-fused mortals in contradistinction to Adjuster-fused mortals. 30:1.102 Still more difficult of description is the individualized spirit of a Creator Son, union with which constitutes the creature a Son-fused mortal. And there are still other fragmentations of Deity.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The Reflective Image Aids also function as the representatives of numerous groups of beings who are influential in the superuniverse governments, but who are not, at present, for various reasons, fully active in their individual capacities. Embraced within this group are: the evolving superuniverse personality manifestation of the Supreme Being, the Unqualified Supervisors of the Supreme, the Qualified Vicegerents of the Ultimate, the unnamed liaison reflectivators of majeston, and the superpersonal spirit representatives of the Eternal Son.      }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 This momentous transaction, occurring in the dawn of time, represents the initial effort of the Supreme Creator Personalities, represented by the Master Spirits, to function as cocreators with the Paradise Trinity. This union of the creative power of the Supreme Creators with the creative potentials of the Trinity is the very source of the actuality of the Supreme Being. Therefore, when the cycle of reflective creation had run its course, when each of the Seven Master Spirits had found perfect creative synchrony with the Paradise Trinity, when the forty-ninth Reflective Spirit had personalized, then a new and far-reaching reaction occurred in the Deity Absolute which imparted new personality prerogatives to the Supreme Being and culminated in the personalization of majeston, the reflectivity chief and Paradise center of all the work of the forty-nine Reflective Spirits and their associates throughout the universe of universes.      }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 17:2.4   majeston is not included in our catalogue of Paradise personalities because he is the only existing personality of divinity created by the Supreme Being in functional liaison with the Deity Absolute. He is a person, but he is exclusively and apparently automatically concerned with this one phase of universe economy; he does not now function in any personal capacity with relation to other (nonreflective) orders of universe personalities.      }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Any mind entity that is not associated with either spiritual or physical energy is not a personality. But in the same sense that there are spirit personalities who have mind there are mind personalities who have spirit. majeston and his associates are fairly good illustrations of mind-dominated beings, but there are better illustrations of this type of personality unknown to you.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Thought adjuster and trinity are same, parallels to the supreme}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The Mystery Monitors are to human beings what the Paradise Trinity is to the Supreme Being. The Adjusters are absolute foundations, and upon absolute foundations freewill choice can cause to be evolved the divine reality of an eternaliter nature, finaliter nature in the case of man, Deity nature in God the Supreme.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (47.3) 3:2.5 The omnipotence of the Father pertains to the everywhere dominance of the absolute level, whereon the three energies, material, mindal, and spiritual, are indistinguishable in close proximity to him \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  the Source of all things. Creature mind, being neither Paradise monota nor Paradise spirit, is not directly responsive to the Universal Father. God adjusts with the mind of imperfection \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  with Urantia mortals through the Thought Adjusters.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Infinite mind ignores time...}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 9:4.4   Infinite mind ignores time, ultimate mind transcends time, cosmic mind is conditioned by time. And so with space: The Infinite Mind is independent of space, but as descent is made from the infinite to the adjutant levels of mind, intellect must increasingly reckon with the fact and limitations of space.      }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JEsus made personal contacts with large numbers of people. Learning about God the Supreme. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1427.5) 130:0.5 On this Mediterranean tour Jesus spent about half of each day teaching Ganid and acting as interpreter during Gonod\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s business conferences and social contacts. The remainder of each day, which was at his disposal, he devoted to making those close personal contacts with his fellow men, those intimate associations with the mortals of the realm, which so characterized his activities during these years that just preceded his public ministry.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1427.6) 130:0.6 From firsthand observation and actual contact Jesus acquainted himself with the higher material and intellectual civilization of the Occident and the Levant; from Gonod and his brilliant son he learned a great deal about the civilization and culture of India and China, for Gonod, himself a citizen of India, had made three extensive trips to the empire of the yellow race.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Live in time and eternity}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  Only in the perfection, harmony, and unanimity of will can the creature become as one with the Creator; and such a state of divinity is attained and maintained only by the creature\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s continuing to live in time and eternity by consistently conforming his finite personal will to the divine will of the Creator. Always must the desire to do the Father\u8217\'92s will be supreme in the soul and dominant over the mind of an ascending son of God.(1434.3) 130:4.4 A one-eyed person can never hope to visualize depth of perspective. Neither can single-eyed material scientists nor single-eyed spiritual mystics and allegorists correctly visualize and adequately comprehend the true depths of universe reality. All true values of creature experience are concealed in depth of recognition.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Fusion breaks fetters of time}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 "When man realizes that the Universal Father is his partner in eternal progression, when he fuses with the indwelling Father presence, he has, in spirit, broken the fetters of time and has already entered upon the progressions of eternity in the quest for the Universal Father."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 31:10.12 During the present universe age the evolving personalities of the grand universe suffer many difficulties due to the incomplete actualization of the sovereignty of God the Supreme, but we are all sharing the unique experience of his evolution. We evolve in him and he evolves in us. Sometime in the eternal future the evolution of Supreme Deity will become a completed fact of universe history, and the opportunity to participate in this wonderful experience will have passed from the stage of cosmic action.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 160:1.14 In a continually changing world, in the midst of an evolving social order, it is impossible to maintain settled and established goals of destiny. Stability of personality can be experienced only by those who have discovered and embraced the living God as the eternal goal of infinite attainment. And thus to transfer one\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s goal from time to eternity, from earth to Paradise, from the human to the divine, requires that man shall become regenerated, converted, be born again; that he shall become the re-created child of the divine spirit; that he shall gain entrance into the brotherhood of the kingdom of heaven. All philosophies and religions which fall short of these ideals are immature. The philosophy which I teach, linked with the gospel which you preach, represents the new religion of maturity, the ideal of all future generations. And this is true because our ideal is final, infallible, eternal, universal, absolute, and infinite.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Of this we are certain: Creatures and universes, high and low, are evolving within the Supreme, and as they evolve, there is appearing the unified summation of the entire finite activity of this universe age. And this is the appearance of the Supreme Being, to all personalities the evolution of the almighty power of God the Supreme.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Even the grand universe experiences of the descending personalities from Paradise are that part of his experience which is complemental to his summation of the ascending experiences of the pilgrims of time.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Man is similar to the supreme}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1282.1) 117:3.6 Mortal man, being a creature, is not exactly like the Supreme Being, who is deity, but man\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s evolution does in some ways resemble the growth of the Supreme. Man consciously grows from the material toward the spiritual by the strength, power, and persistency of his own decisions; he also grows as his Thought Adjuster develops new techniques for reaching down from the spiritual to the morontial soul levels; and once the soul comes into being, it begins to grow in and of itself.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 What the Trinity is to God the Supreme, the Adjuster is to evolving man.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 the Supreme culminates the total finite and establishes its relationship with the destiny of the .}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 This goes with invulnerable }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The Father nature, the Adjuster presence, is indestructible regardless of the choice of the mortal being.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 We are the supreme}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1284.5) 117:4.9 The evolution of Adjuster progress in the spiritualizing and eternalizing of a human personality is directly productive of an enlargement of the sovereignty of the Supreme. Such achievements in human evolution are at the same time achievements in the evolutionary actualization of the Supreme.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Reflectivity functions in us}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 And the mutual progression of creature evolution and of Supreme evolution is faithfully and fully indicated to the Ancients of Days over the inscrutable mechanisms of universe reflectivity.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Supreme depends on us}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 To the extent that the human self thus refuses to take part in the Paradise ascent, to just that extent is the Supreme delayed in achieving divinity expression in the grand universe.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 And here is mystery: The more closely man approaches God through love, the greater the reality \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  actuality \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  of that man.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 65:8.6 When physical conditions are ripe, sudden mental evolutions may take place; when mind status is propitious, sudden spiritual transformations may occur; when spiritual values receive proper recognition, then cosmic meanings become discernible, and increasingly the personality is released from the handicaps of time and delivered from the limitations of space.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 On material levels man finds himself subservient to nature, while on spiritual levels he is triumphant over nature and over all things temporal and finite. Such a paradox is inseparable from temptation, potential evil, decisional errors, and when self becomes proud and arrogant, sin may evolve.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Mechanism is of the mind}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Mechanisms are the products of mind, creative mind acting on and in cosmic potentials. Mechanisms are the fixed crystallizations of Creator thought, and they ever function true to the volitional concept that gave them origin. But the purposiveness of any mechanism is in its origin, not in its function.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 At one}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 103:6.10 Early man did not differentiate between the energy level and the spirit level. It was the violet race and their Andite successors who first attempted to divorce the mathematical from the volitional. Increasingly has civilized man followed in the footsteps of the earliest Greeks and the Sumerians who distinguished between the inanimate and the animate. And as civilization progresses, philosophy will have to bridge ever-widening gulfs between the spirit concept and the energy concept. But in the time of space these divergencies are at one in the Supreme.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 -------}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Spirit gravity}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The spiritual-gravity pull of the Eternal Son constitutes the inherent secret of the Paradise ascension of surviving human souls. All genuine spirit values and all bona fide spiritualized individuals are held within the unfailing grasp of the spiritual gravity of the Eternal Son. The mortal mind, for example, initiates its career as a material mechanism and is eventually mustered into the Corps of the Finality as a well-nigh perfected spirit existence, becoming progressively less subject to material gravity and correspondingly more responsive to the inward pulling urge of spirit gravity during this entire experience. The spirit-gravity circuit literally pulls the soul of man Paradiseward.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Timeless power}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 but the spiritual kingdom was not advanced in the hearts of men by this amazing eruption of timeless creative healing....}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ....}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 , who actually possessed in his person almost unlimited and timeless creative healing powers and prerogatives.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 _____}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The brotherhood is the supreme}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 12:7.10 This very love of God for the individual brings into being the divine family of all individuals, the universal brotherhood of the freewill children of the Paradise Father. And this brotherhood, being universal, is a relationship of the whole. Brotherhood, when universal, discloses not the each relationship, but the all relationship. Brotherhood is a reality of the total and therefore discloses qualities of the whole in contradistinction to qualities of the part.12:7.11 Brotherhood constitutes a fact of relationship between every personality in universal existence. No person can escape the benefits or the penalties that may come as a result of relationship to other persons. The part profits or suffers in measure with the whole. The good effort of each man benefits all men; the error or evil of each man augments the tribulation of all men. As moves the part, so moves the whole. As the progress of the whole, so the progress of the part. The relative velocities of part and whole determine whether the part is retarded by the inertia of the whole or is carried forward by the momentum of the cosmic brotherhood.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ____}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Third person}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Jesus speaking to Nathaniel:147:4.3 when you perceive the ETERNAL FITNESS OF HUMAN RELATIONSHIPS, you will begin to view such a problem of interpretation as you would imagine a high-minded, idealistic, wise, and impartial THIRD PERSON would so view and interpret such an injunction}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ---}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Weaning dependance on material mechanism }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  From the seventh to the third circle there occurs increased and unified action of the seven adjutant mind-spirits in the task of weaning the mortal mind from its dependence on the realities of the material life mechanisms preparatory to increased introduction to morontia levels of existence.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94  (P. 1211)}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ---}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Decisions like the lessons in the course}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 110:6.6 Every decision you make either impedes or facilitates the function of the Adjuster; likewise do these very decisions determine your advancement in the circles of human achievement. It is true that the supremacy of a decision, its crisis relationship, has a great deal to do with its circle-making influence; nevertheless, numbers of decisions, frequent repetitions, persistent repetitions, are also essential to the habit-forming certainty of such reactions.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ---}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Paper 14 point of origin}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The whole story of havona is an attempt to time space an eternity fact which has no relation to time or Space}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Paper 15}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 As far as the super universes are concerned they are nonexistent to the father. He deals with personalities}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ----}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 You cannot see  spirit but you can see its effects}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 62 Everyone in the world must play his part in the redemption of the world to recognize that the world has been redeemed. You cannot see the invisible. Yet if you see its effects, you know it must be there. By perceiving what it does, you recognize its being. And by what it does, you learn what it is. You cannot see your abilities, but you gain confidence in their existence as they enable you to act. And the results of your actions you can see.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 63 The Holy Spirit is invisible, but you can see the results of His Presence, and through them you will learn that He is there. What He enables you to do is clearly not of this world, for miracles violate every law of reality as this world judges it. Every law of time and space, of magnitude and mass, of prediction and control is transcended, for what the Holy Spirit enables you to do is clearly beyond all of them. Perceiving His results, you will understand where He must be and finally know what He is.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 64 You cannot see the Holy Spirit, but you can see His manifestations. And unless you do, you will not realize He is there. Miracles are His witnesses and speak for His Presence. What you cannot see becomes real to you only through the witnesses who speak for it. For you can be aware of what you cannot see, and it can become compellingly real to you as its presence becomes manifest through you. Do the Holy Spirit's work, for you share in His function. As your function in Heaven is creation, so your function on earth is healing. God shares His function with you in Heaven, and the Holy Spirit shares His with you on earth.         }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ----}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 God did not create the universes}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 1:0.1   . By the Sons of God were the universes made. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ----}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Personality will persist as a factor}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 117:4.3     The child of the Supreme, the evolving self, can be destroyed notwithstanding that the potentially unifying personality of such a misguided self will persist as a factor of the Deity of Supremacy....}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ------}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Savers of time.... Saves a 1000 years of time?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 These tertiary seconaphim are the timesavers, space abridgers, error detectors, faithful teachers, and everlasting guideposts\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 living signs of divine surety\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 in mercy placed at the crossroads of time, there to guide the feet of anxious pilgrims in moments of great perplexity and spiritual uncertainty.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The Urantia Book / Paper 28 / Ministering Spirits of the Superuniverses / 28:7.3}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ------}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Those without name and number worship}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 True, the course does lump everyone together as the Sonship. And it's attitude is to view others as lacking in love where there is a need to fill. Or to see others actions as a cry for help. No judgement, no condemnation, just love and mercy. I have been thinking of this quote lately. We could become those without name and number. Trinity embraced. Worship is the key.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Worship beyond the skill of all sons}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 22:4.1 Those without Name and Number constitute the third and last group of the Trinitized Sons of Attainment; they are the ascendant souls who have developed the ability to worship beyond the skill of all the sons and daughters of the evolutionary races from the worlds of time and space.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Worship is the act of the part identifying with the whole which is what the course seems to be trying to teach us. I am one with all my brothers and sisters. One self. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 143:7.8 Worship is the act of a part identifying itself with the Whole; the finite with the Infinite; the son with the Father; time in the act of striking step with eternity. Worship is the act of the son\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s personal communion with the divine Father, the assumption of refreshing, creative, fraternal, and romantic attitudes by the human soul-spirit.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ------}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 I'm just going to put this right here. This language about reflection in the course sounds very similar to reflectivity in the Urantia book. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 "In Heaven reality is shared and not reflected." Reflectivity is a time space phenomenon right? Didn't reflectivity begin with the creation of Majeston and isn't it critical to the development of the Supreme? If so it is not a function of "heaven" or Havona other than to manage the seven superuniverses? I want to find quotes tin the Urantia book that parallel this over the next few days. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Reflection}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Chapter Fourteen: Bringing Illusions to Truth}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 VI. The Shift to Miracles}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 46 When no perception stands between God and His creations, or between His Children and their own, the knowledge of creation must continue forever. The reflections which you accept into the mirror of your minds in time but bring eternity nearer or farther. But eternity itself is beyond all time. Reach out of time and touch it, with the help of its reflection in you. And you will turn from time to holiness as surely as the reflection of holiness calls everyone to lay all guilt aside. Reflect the peace of Heaven here and bring this world to Heaven. For the reflection of truth draws everyone to truth, and as they enter into it, they leave all reflections behind.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 47 In Heaven reality is shared and not reflected. By sharing its reflection here, its truth becomes the only perception the Son of God accepts. And thus, remembrance of his Father dawns on him, and he can no longer be satisfied with anything but his own reality. You on earth have no conception of limitlessness, for the world you seem to live in is a world of limits. In this world, it is not true that anything without order of difficulty can occur. The miracle, therefore, has a unique function and is motivated by a unique Teacher, Who brings the laws of another world to this one. The miracle is the one thing you can do that transcends order, being based not on differences but on equality.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 -----------}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Mind co-ordinates the universe - goes with mind made, planned, mind made, and mind administered }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 42:11.7 Since mind co-ordinates the universe, fixity of mechanisms is nonexistent. The phenomenon of progressive evolution associated with cosmic self-maintenance is universal. The evolutionary capacity of the universe is inexhaustible in the infinity of spontaneity. Progress towards harmonious unity, a growing experiential synthesis superimposed on an ever-increasing complexity of relationships, could be effected only by a purposive and dominant mind.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ------}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Nonexistence takes time}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 54:3.2 Although conscious and wholehearted identification with evil (sin) is the equivalent of nonexistence (annihilation), there must always intervene between the time of such personal identification with sin and the execution of the penalty\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the automatic result of such a willful embrace of evil\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 a period of time of sufficient length to allow for such an adjudication of such an individual's universe status as will prove entirely satisfactory to all related universe personalities, and which will be so fair and just as to win the approval of the sinner himself.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Angels were thwarted. In JCIM Angels came }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 "The Souls of Peace. The early millenniums of the upward strivings of evolutionary men are marked by many a struggle. Peace is not the natural state of the material realms. The worlds first realize \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93peace on earth and good will among men\u8221\'94 through the ministry of the seraphic souls of peace. Although these angels were largely thwarted in their early efforts on Urantia, Vevona, chief of the souls of peace in Adam's day, was left on Urantia and is now attached to the staff of the resident governor general. And it was this same Vevona who, when Michael was born, heralded to the worlds, as the leader of the angelic host, \u8220\'93Glory to God in Havona and on earth peace and good will among men.\u8221\'94 39:5.5 3.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 This goes with above paragraph}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The Atonement actually began long before the crucifixion. Many Souls offered their efforts on behalf of the separated ones, but they could not withstand the strength of the attack and had to be brought back. Angels came, too, but their protection did not suffice because the separated ones were not interested in peace.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 work out the details of your earthly sojourn in connection with the intelligences of the Infinite Spirit }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 5:3.5 When you deal with the practical affairs of your daily life, you are in the hands of the spirit personalities having origin in the Third Source and Center; you are co-operating with the agencies of the Conjoint Actor. And so it is: You worship God; pray to, and commune with, the Son; and work out the details of your earthly sojourn in connection with the intelligences of the Infinite Spirit operating on your world and throughout your universe.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 -----}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Mind effect partial abridgment of time}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 118:8.8 That mind which can effect a partial abridgment of time and space, by this very act proves itself possessed of the seeds of wisdom which can effectively serve in lieu of the transcended barrier of restraint.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ---}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Son creates 7 }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 14:2.2 (154.4) The physical realities of Havona represent an order of energy organization radically different from any prevailing in the evolutionary universes of space. Havona energies are threefold; superuniverse units of energy-matter contain a twofold energy charge, although one form of energy exists in negative and positive phases. The creation of the central universe is threefold (Trinity); the creation of a local universe (directly) is twofold, by a Creator Son and a Creative Spirit.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 1:0.1   . By the Sons of God were the universes made. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 good quote. We need to consider the eternity viewpoint as already a factualization. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 106:9.5 The paradox created by the experiential and the existential viewpoints is inevitable and is predicated in part on the fact that the Paradise Trinity and the Trinity of Trinities are each an eternity relationship which mortals can only perceive as a time-space relativity. The human concept of the gradual experiential actualization of the Trinity of Trinities\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the time viewpoint\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 must be supplemented by the additional postulate that this is already a factualization\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the eternity viewpoint.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 105:3.10 The relationships of absolutes in eternity cannot always be presented without involving paradoxes in the language of time and in the concept patterns of space.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ----}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 find quote, when mind matter and spirit are unified by personality it is impossible to predict the decisions, paper 12}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 12:6.5 When matter, mind, and spirit are unified by creature personality, we are unable fully to predict the decisions of such a freewill being.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ----}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Michael is the equivalent of the supreme to Nebadon. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 What Michael is to Nebadon, the Supreme is to the finite cosmos; his Deity is the great avenue through which the love of the Father flows outward to all creation, and he is the great avenue through which finite creatures pass inward in their quest of the Father, who is love. Even Thought Adjusters are related to him; in original nature and divinity they are like the Father, but when they experience the transactions of time in the universes of space, they become like the Supreme.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ______________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 This reminded me of the Supreme}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 180:5.10 Love, unselfishness, must undergo a constant and living readaptative interpretation}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  of relationships in accordance with the leading of the Spirit of Truth.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 180:5.10 Love must thereby grasp the ever-changing and enlarging concepts of the}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  highest cosmic good of the individual who is loved. And then love goes }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 on to strike this same attitude concerning all other individuals who }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 could possibly be influenced by the growing and living relationship of }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 one spirit-led mortal\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s love for other citizens of the universe. And }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 this entire living adaptation of love must be effected in the light of }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 both the environment of present evil and the eternal goal of the }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 perfection of divine destiny.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ---------}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 God only sees personality}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 1:3.6 In the universes God the Father is, in potential, the overcontroller of matter, mind, and spirit. Only by means of his far-flung personality circuit does God deal directly with the personalities of his vast creation of will creatures, but he is contactable (outside of Paradise only in the presences of his fragmented entities, the will of God abroad in the universes. This Paradise spirit that indwells the minds of the mortals of time and there fosters the evolution of the immortal soul of the surviving creature is of the nature and divinity of the Universal Father. But the minds of such evolutionary creatures originate in the local universes and must gain divine perfection by achieving those experiential transformations of spiritual attainment which are the inevitable result of a creature's choosing to do the will of the Father in heaven.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Experience}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 "We cannot search out God by knowledge, but we can know him in our hearts by personal experience."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The Urantia Book, (1453.5) 131:10.3}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The universe is mind made}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 42:11.1 In the evaluation and recognition of mind it should be remembered that the universe is neither mechanical nor magical; it is a creation of mind and a mechanism of law. But while in practical application the laws of nature operate in what seems to be the dual realms of the physical and the spiritual, in reality they are one. The First Source and Center is the primal cause of all materialization and at the same time the first and final Father of all spirits. The Paradise Father appears personally in the extra-Havona universes only as pure energy and pure spirit\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 as the Thought Adjusters and other similar fragmentations.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 An article by Brian beletose about the unique nature of the UB and how it came about}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 http://www.patheos.com/blogs/spiritualitychannelseries/2016/06/claims-of-revelation-the-origin-story-of-the-urantia-book/}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Random parallels}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Deny the body, deny the mechanism}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Here is a parallel I noticed that is odd and interesting. JCIM: "to deny its existence" (body) is an "unworthy form of denial". Urantia: "to deny the mechanism of finite creation is to deny fact". }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: 56 The body, if properly  understood, shares the invulnerability of the Atonement to two-edged  application. This is not because the body is a miracle but because it  is not inherently open to misinterpretation. The body is  merely a fact in human experience. Its abilities can be and  frequently are over-evaluated. HOWEVER, IT IS ALMOST IMPOSSIBLE TO DENY ITS EXISTENCE. Those who do so are engaging in a particularly unworthy form of denial. The term "unworthy" here implies  simply that it is not necessary to protect the mind by denying the  unmindful. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 118:9.4 The  universe is mechanism as well as organism, mechanical and living\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 a living mechanism activated by a Supreme Mind, co-ordinating with a Supreme Spirit, and finding expression on maximum levels of power and personality unification as the Supreme Being. BUT TO DENY THE MECHANISM OF THE FINITE CREATION IS TO DENY FACT AND TO DISREGARD REALITY.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ____________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Angels were removed upon the collapse of the Adamic regime.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: The Atonement actually began long before the crucifixion. Many Souls offered their efforts on behalf of the separated ones, but they could not withstand the strength of the attack and had to be brought back. Angels came, too, but their protection did not suffice because the separated ones were not interested in peace.  }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 39:5.2 On Urantia the majority of the planetary helpers were removed upon the collapse of the Adamic regime, and the seraphic supervision of your world devolved to a greater extent upon the administrators, the transition ministers, and the guardians of destiny}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ____________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Lack of love quote}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 5. Jesus\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 Teaching at Tyre}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 156:5.11 You are destined to live a narrow and mean life if you learn to love only those who love you. Human love may indeed be reciprocal, but divine love is outgoing in all its satisfaction-seeking. The less of love in any creature\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s nature, the greater the love need, and the more does divine love seek to satisfy such need. Love is never self-seeking, and it cannot be self-bestowed. Divine love cannot be self-contained; it must be unselfishly bestowed.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM The ego does not perceive sin as a lack of love. It perceives sin as a positive act of assault. This is an interpretation which is necessary to the ego's survival because as soon as you regard sin as a lack you will automatically attempt to remedy the situation. And you will succeed. The ego regards this as doom, but you must learn to regard it as freedom. The guiltless mind cannot suffer. Being sane, it heals the body because it has been healed. The sane mind cannot conceive of illness because it cannot conceive of attacking anyone or anything.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ____________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Here are a few quotes on the struggle we experience between two thought systems. Those who live within either realm experience little conflict. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM quote:  The way out of conflict between two opposing thought systems is clearly to choose one and relinquish the other. If you identify with your thought system, and you cannot escape this, and if you accept two thought systems which are in complete disagreement,peace of mind is impossible. If you teach both, which you will surely do as long as you accept both, you are teaching conflict and learning it.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia 159:3.7 Forewarn all believers regarding the fringe of conflict which must be traversed by all who pass from the life as it is lived in the flesh to the higher life as it is lived in the spirit. TO THOSE WHO LIVE QUITE WHOLLY WITHIN EITHER REALM, THERE IS LITTLE CONFLICT OR CONFUSION, BUT ALL ARE DOOMED TO EXPERIENCE MORE OR LESS UNCERTAINTY DURING THE TIMES OF TRANSITION BETWEEN THE TWO LEVELS OF LIVING. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Ch 7 VII}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: The ego wants no part of truth because the truth is that the ego is not true. If truth is total, the untrue cannot exist. Commitment to either must be total, since they cannot coexist in your minds without splitting them. If they cannot coexist in peace and if you want peace, you must give up the idea of conflict entirely and for all time. [This requires vigilance only as long as you do not recognize what is true.] While you believe that two totally contradictory thought systems share truth, your need for vigilance is apparent. Your minds are dividing their allegiance between two kingdoms, and you are totally committed to neither.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ____________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 These two quotes separate ego learning from religious experience. They say the same thing in a different way. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM says the soul cannot perceive and the ego cannot know. Urantia says the realities of religion are utterly beyond the mortal capacity for intellectual comprehension.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: You believe that if you allow no change to enter into your ego, your Soul will find peace. This profound confusion is possible only if one maintains that the same thought system can stand on two foundations. Nothing can reach the Soul from the ego, and nothing from the Soul can strengthen the ego or reduce the conflict within it. The ego is a contradiction. Man's self and God's Self are in opposition. They are opposed in creation, in will, and in outcome. They are fundamentally irreconcilable because the Soul cannot perceive and the ego cannot know. They are therefore not in communication and can never be in communication. Nevertheless, the ego can learn because its maker can be misguided but cannot make the totally lifeless out of the life-given. The Soul need not be taught, but the ego must.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 5:5.6 Religious experience, being essentially spiritual, can never be fully understood by the material mind; hence the function of theology, the psychology of religion. The essential doctrine of the human realization of God creates a paradox in finite comprehension. It is well-nigh impossible for human logic and finite reason to harmonize the concept of divine immanence, God within and a part of every individual, with the idea of God's transcendence, the divine domination of the universe of universes. These two essential concepts of Deity must be unified in the faith-grasp of the concept of the transcendence of a personal God and in the realization of the indwelling presence of a fragment of that God in order to justify intelligent worship and validate the hope of personality survival. The difficulties and paradoxes of religion are inherent in the fact that the realities of religion are utterly beyond the mortal capacity for intellectual comprehension.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ____________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The course tells us we are much too tolerant of mind wandering. That seems to be where the power to transform ourselves lies.  }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: "You are much too tolerant of mind wandering, thus passively condoning its miscreation\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s. The particular result does not matter, but the fundamental error does. The correction is always the same. Before you will to do anything, ask me if your will is in accord with mine. If you are sure that it is, there will be no fear." }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 110:7.6 So few mortals are real thinkers; you do not spiritually develop and discipline your minds to the point of favorable liaison with the divine Adjusters. The ear of the human mind is almost deaf to the spiritual pleas which the Adjuster translates from the manifold messages of the universal broadcasts of love proceeding from the Father of mercies.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ____________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 In JCIM Jesus refers to himself as an ELDER BROTHER. He says he is in charge of the SONSHIP.  }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: 80 I bridge the distance as an ELDER BROTHER to man on the one hand and as a Son of God on the other. My devotion to my brothers has placed me in charge of the SONSHIP, which I can render complete only to the extent to which I can share it. This may appear to contradict the statement, "I and my Father are one," but there are still separate parts in the statement in recognition ...that the Father is greater. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: 78 The miracle, on the other hand, is a sign of love among equals. Equals cannot be in awe of one another because awe implies inequality. It is therefore an inappropriate reaction to me. An ELDER BROTHER is entitled to respect for his greater experience and a reasonable amount of obedience for his greater wisdom. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The Urantia book also refers to Jesus as an ELDER BROTHER and we are part of the SONSHIP.  }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 40:6.3 All evolutionary worlds of mortal habitation harbor these faith sons of God, sons of grace and mercy, mortal beings belonging to the divine family and accordingly called the sons of God. Urantia mortals are entitled to regard themselves as being the sons of God because: }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 1. You are sons of spiritual promise, faith sons; you have accepted the status of SONSHIP. You believe in the reality of your SONSHIP, and thus does your SONSHIP with God become eternally real. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 2. A Creator Son of God became one of you; he is your ELDER BROTHER in fact; and if in spirit you become truly related brothers of Christ, the victorious Michael, then in spirit must you also be sons of that Father which you have in common\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 even the Universal Father of all.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 God the Supreme is the God of action. The Course in Miracles gave us a slogan. \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Listen, Lean, and Do\u8221\'94.  We must do something to achieve status within the Sonship. The Urantia book says we must do something as well as be something to achieve status in the Supreme.  }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: As you share my inability to tolerate lack of love in yourself and others, you must join the Great Crusade to correct it. The slogan for the Crusade is "Listen, learn and do": Listen to my voice, learn to undo... error, and do something to correct it. THE FIRST TWO ARE NOT ENOUGH. THE REAL MEMBERS OF MY PARTY ARE ACTIVE WORKERS. Urantia: 115:0.1 WITH GOD THE FATHER,  sonship is the great relationship. With God the Supreme, achievement is the prerequisite to status\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 ONE MUST DO SOMETHING AS WELL AS BE SOMETHING. More quotes  }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 194:3.11 Pentecost, with its spiritual endowment, was designed forever to loose the religion of the Master from all dependence upon physical force; the teachers of this new religion are now equipped with spiritual weapons. They are to go out to conquer the world with unfailing forgiveness, matchless good will, and abounding love. They are equipped to overcome evil with good, to vanquish hate by love, to destroy fear with a courageous and living faith in truth. Jesus had already taught his followers that his religion was NEVER PASSIVE; always were his disciples to be active and positive in their ministry of mercy and in their manifestations of love. No longer did these believers look upon Yahweh as \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the Lord of Hosts.\u8221\'94 They now regarded the eternal Deity as the \u8220\'93God and Father of the Lord Jesus Christ.\u8221\'94 They made that progress, at least, even if they did in some measure fail fully to grasp the truth that God is also the spiritual Father of every individual.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 117:4.7 Mankind does not ascend effortlessly in the universe, neither does the Supreme evolve without purposeful and intelligent action. Creatures do not attain perfection by mere passivity, nor can the spirit of Supremacy factualize the power of the Almighty without unceasing service ministry to the finite creation. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Action is essential to attainment of the supreme }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia:  110:6.17 The motivation of faith makes experiential the full realization of man\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s sonship with God, but action, completion of decisions, is essential to the evolutionary attainment of consciousness of progressive kinship with the cosmic actuality of the Supreme Being. Faith transmutes potentials to actuals in the spiritual world, but potentials become actuals in the finite realms of the Supreme only by and through the realization of choice-experience. But choosing to do the will of God joins spiritual faith to material decisions in personality action and thus supplies a divine and spiritual fulcrum for the more effective functioning of the human and material leverage of God-hunger. Such a wise co-ordination of material and spiritual forces greatly augments both cosmic realization of the Supreme and morontia comprehension of the Paradise Deities.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The circle of creation in both books. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia 105:0.1 The human mind, as it seeks to penetrate the eternity-mystery of the origin and destiny of all that is called real, may helpfully approach the problem by conceiving eternity-infinity AS AN ALMOST LIMITLESS ELLIPSE which is produced by one absolute cause, and which functions throughout this universal circle of endless diversification, ever seeking some absolute and infinite potential of destiny.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 III. Reversing Effect and Cause}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 16 Without a cause there can be no effects, and yet without effects there is no cause. The cause a cause is made by its effects; the Father is a father by His Son. Effects do not create their cause, but they establish its causation. Thus, the Son gives fatherhood to his Creator and receives the gift that he has given Him. It is because he is God's Son that he must also be a father who creates as God created him. THE CIRCLE OF CREATION HAS NO END. Its starting and its ending are the same. But in itself it holds the universe of all creation, without beginning and without an end.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 I noticed the course is asking us to think about \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93WHAT IS THE \u8220\'93YOU\u8221\'94 WHO ARE LIVING IN THIS WORLD\u8221\'94. It made me think of the quote from the Urantia book that says the Thought Adjuster is the \u8220\'93REAL YOU\u8221\'94. The statement \u8220\'93IMORTALITY IS A CONSTANT STATE\u8221\'94 makes sense in this course quote if you think of it from the point of view that we are our thought adjuster. After all we have to transfer our identity to it at some point. The two similar quotes are below.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: "Chapter Four: The Root of All Evil VII. The Constant State }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 It cannot be emphasized too often that correcting perception is merely a temporary expedient. It is necessary to do so only because misperception is a block to knowledge, while accurate perception is a stepping-stone towards it. The whole value of right perception lies in the inevitable judgment which it entails that it is unnecessary. This removes the block entirely. You may ask how this is possible as long as you appear to be living in this world, and since this is a sensible question, it has a sensible answer. You must be careful, however, that you really understand the question. WHAT IS THE "YOU" WHO ARE LIVING IN THIS WORLD? 82 IMMORTALITY IS A CONSTANT STATE. It is as true now as it ever was or ever will be because it implies no change at all."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 108:6.6 And as you are the human parent, so is the Adjuster the divine parent of THE REAL YOU, your higher and advancing self, your better morontial and future spiritual self}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The error or the planetary rebellion caused a world of unreality to emerge.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia quote : (754.1) 67:0.1 "THE problems associated with human existence on Urantia are impossible of understanding without a knowledge of certain great epochs of the past, notably the occurrence and consequences of the planetary rebellion. Although this upheaval did not seriously interfere with the progress of organic evolution, IT DID MARKEDLY MODIFY THE COURSE OF SOCIAL EVOLUTION AND OF SPIRITUAL DEVELOPMENT. The entire superphysical history of the planet was profoundly influenced by this devastating calamity."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM quote }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 "Chapter Eighteen: The Dream and the Reality}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 II. Substitution as a Defense}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 5 You have expressed surprise at hearing how very different is reality from what you see. You do not realize the magnitude of that one error. IT WAS SO VAST AND SO COMPLETELY INCREDIBLE THAT FROM IT A WORLD OF TOTAL UNREALITY HAD TO EMERGE. What else could come of it? Its fragmented aspects are fearful enough, as you begin to look at them. But nothing you have seen begins to show you the enormity of the original error, which seemed to cast you out of Heaven, to shatter knowledge into meaningless bits of disunited perceptions, and to force you to further substitutions."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 To give and receive are one.  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: A major learning goal this course has set is to reverse your view of giving, so you can receive. For giving has become a source of fear, and so you would avoid the only means by which you can receive. Accept God\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s peace and joy, and you will learn a different way of looking at a gift. God\u8217\'92s gifts will never lessen when they are given away. They but increase thereby.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 100:7.10 The Master was always generous. He never grew weary of saying, "It is more blessed to give than to receive." Said he, "Freely you have received, freely give." And yet, with all of his unbounded generosity, he was never wasteful or extravagant. He taught that you must believe to receive salvation. "For every one who seeks shall receive."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Projection is used in both books in the same way. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM defines projection:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: PROJECTION IS A FUNDAMENTAL LAW OF THE MIND and therefore one which always operates. It is the law by which you create and were created. It is the law which unifies the Kingdom and keeps it in the Mind of God. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The use of projection by the Holy Spirit}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 \bullet  Without projection there can be no love}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 \bullet  To the Holy Spirit, it is the fundamental law of sharing by which you   give what you value in order to keep it in your own mind.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 \bullet  Projection, to the Holy Spirit, is the law of extension.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 \bullet  It therefore produces abundance  }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The use of projection by the Ego  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 \bullet  Without projection there can be no anger}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 \bullet  To the ego, the law is perceived as a way of getting rid of something it does not want.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 \bullet  To the ego, projection is the law of deprivation.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 \bullet  It therefore produces  scarcity }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The ego's use of projection must be fully understood before its inevitable association between projection and anger can be finally undone. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The ego always tries to preserve conflict. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The ego, using its own warped version of the laws of God, utilizes the power of the mind only to defeat the mind's real purpose. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The ego, using its own warped version of the laws of God, utilizes the power of the mind only to defeat the mind's real purpose.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The Urantia book uses the term projection in the same way. Projection is the fundamental law of sharing. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 54:2.1 With the Son and in the Spirit did God PROJECT eternal Havona, and ever since has there obtained the eternal pattern of co-ordinate participation in creation \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  SHARING. This pattern of SHARING is the master design for every one of the Sons and Daughters of God who go out into space to engage in the attempt to duplicate in time the central universe of eternal perfection.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 32:2.2 From pre-existent energy these divine Sons materialize visible matter, PROJECT living creatures, and with the co-operation of the universe presence of the Infinite Spirit, create a diverse retinue of spirit personalities.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 101:9.7 1. The spiritual urge and philosophic pressure of religion tend to cause man to PROJECT his estimation of moral values directly outward into the affairs of his fellows \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  the ethical reaction of religion.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 1:9.3 Thus did the Father PROJECT reality in two actual phases \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  the personal and the nonpersonal, the spiritual and the nonspiritual. The tension between them, in the face of will to action by the Father and the Son, gave existence to the Conjoint Actor and the central universe of material worlds and spiritual beings.And we use projection in our lives. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: It is the law by which you create and were created.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: To the Holy Spirit, it (projection) is the fundamental law of sharing by which you give what you value in order to keep it in your own mind.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: It is the law by which you create and were created.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 We can elect to stay behind after fusion}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 55:3.18 5. Mortals of Adjuster-fusion status who, UPON THEIR OWN PETITION, ARE TEMPORARILY EXEMPTED FROM TRANSLATION by the order of the Personalized Adjuster of universe chieftainship in order that they may continue on the planet in certain important administrative posts.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: 63 Across the bridge, it is so different! For a time the body is still seen but not exclusively, as it is seen here. For the little spark which holds the Great Rays within it is also visible, and this spark cannot be limited long to littleness. Once you have crossed the bridge, the value of the body is so diminished in your sight that you will see no need at all to magnify it. For you will realize that THE ONLY VALUE WHICH THE BODY HAS IS TO ENABLE YOU TO BRING YOUR BROTHERS TO THE BRIDGE WITH YOU AND TO BE RELEASED TOGETHER THERE.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ___________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Illusion of loneliness }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 26 I am come as a light into a world that does deny itself everything. It does this simply by dissociating itself from everything. It is therefore an illusion of isolation, maintained by fear of the same loneliness which is its illusion. I have told you that I am with you always, even to the end of the world. That is why I am the light of the world. IF I AM WITH YOU IN THE LONELINESS OF THE WORLD, THE LONELINESS IS GONE. You cannot maintain the illusion of loneliness if you are not alone. My purpose, then, is to overcome the world. I do not attack it, but my light must dispel it because of what it is.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Personality isolation and we are all one}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 184:4.6 These are the moments of the Master\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s greatest victories in all his long and eventful career as maker, upholder, and savior of a vast and far-flung universe. Having lived to the full a life of revealing God to man, Jesus is now engaged in making a new and unprecedented revelation of man to God. Jesus is now revealing to the worlds the final triumph over all fears of creature personality isolation. The Son of Man has finally achieved the realization of identity as the Son of God. Jesus does not hesitate to assert that he and the Father are one; and on the basis of the fact and truth of that supreme and supernal experience, he admonishes every kingdom believer to become one with him even as he and his Father are one. The living experience in the religion of Jesus thus becomes the sure and certain technique whereby the SPIRITUALLY ISOLATED AND COSMICALLY LONELY MORTALS OF EARTH ARE ENABLED TO ESCAPE PERSONALITY ISOLATION, with all its consequences of fear and associated feelings of helplessness. In the fraternal realities of the kingdom of heaven the faith sons of God find final deliverance from the isolation of the self, both personal and planetary. The God-knowing believer increasingly experiences the ecstasy and grandeur of spiritual socialization on a universe scale\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 citizenship on high in association with the eternal realization of the divine destiny of perfection attainment.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 101:10.7 Religion effectually cures man's sense of idealistic isolation or spiritual loneliness; it enfranchises the believer as a son of God, a citizen of a new and meaningful universe. Religion assures man that, in following the gleam of righteousness discernible in his soul, he is thereby identifying himself with the plan of the Infinite and the purpose of the Eternal. Such a liberated soul immediately begins to feel at home in this new universe, his universe.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 We are all one}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 35 The Holy Trinity is holy because it is one. If you exclude yourself from this union, you are perceiving the Holy Trinity as separated. You must be included in It because It is everything. Unless you take your place in It and fulfill your function as part of It, It is as bereft as you are. No part of It can be imprisoned if Its truth is to be known. Can you be separated from your identification and be at peace? Dissociation is not a solution; it is a delusion. The delusional believe that truth will assail them, and so they do not see it because they prefer the delusion. Judging truth as something they do not want, they perceive deception and block knowledge.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ____________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The spark of life lives in the mind.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: Chapter Nine: The Correction of Error}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 X. Magic Versus Miracles}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The power of one mind can shine into another because all the lamps of God were lit by the same SPARK. It is everywhere, and it is eternal.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 In many only the SPARK remains, for the Great Rays are obscured. Yet God has kept the SPARK alive so that the rays can never be completely forgotten. If you but see the little SPARK, you will learn of the greater light, for the rays are there unseen. Perceiving the SPARK will heal, but knowing the light will create. Yet in the returning, the little light must be acknowledged first, for the separation was a descent from magnitude to littleness. But the SPARK is still as pure as the great light because it is the remaining call of creation. Put all your faith in it, and God Himself will answer you.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 132:3.6 Faith acts to release the superhuman activities of the divine SPARK, the immortal germ, that lives within the mind of man, and which is the potential of eternal survival. Plants and animals survive in time by the technique of passing on from one generation to another identical particles of themselves. The human soul (personality) of man survives mortal death by identity association with this indwelling SPARK of divinity, which is immortal, and which functions to perpetuate the human personality upon a continuing and higher level of progressive universe existence.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ---------}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Did you know the universes are virtually nonexistent to the Universal Father?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Chapter Ten: God and the Ego}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 VIII. The Problem and the Answer}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: 69 The world as you perceive it cannot have been created by the Father, for the world is not as you see it. God created only the eternal, and everything you see is perishable. Therefore, there must be another world which you do not see.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 15:0.1 (164.1) AS FAR as the Universal Father is concerned \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  as a Father \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  the universes are virtually nonexistent; he deals with personalities; he is the Father of personalities. As far as the Eternal Son and the Infinite Spirit are concerned \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  as creator partners \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  the universes are localized and individual under the joint rule of the Creator Sons and the Creative Spirits.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia 8:3.2 Since the personalization of the Third Source, the First Source no more personally participates in universe creation. The Universal Father delegates everything possible to his Eternal Son; likewise does the Eternal Son bestow all possible authority and power upon the Conjoint Creator.}{\f1\fs22 \line \line }{\f0\fs22 8:3.3 The Eternal Son and the Conjoint Creator have, as partners and through their co-ordinate personalities, planned and fashioned every post-Havona universe which has been brought into existence. The Spirit sustains the same personal relation to the Son in all subsequent creation that the Son sustains to the Father in the first and central creation.}{\f1\fs22 \line \line }{\f0\fs22 8:3.4 A Creator Son of the Eternal Son and a Creative Spirit of the Infinite Spirit created you and your universe; and while the Father in faithfulness upholds that which they have organized, it devolves upon this Universe Son and this Universe Spirit to foster and sustain their work as well as to minister to the creatures of their own making.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ___________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Is it possible that the Course in Miracles is seeking to train a certain type of mortal for a unique career in the seven superuniverses? Urantia: "They have acquired a spiritual concept of the eternal purpose of the Universal Father which comparatively transcends the comprehension of the evolutionary creatures of name or number"}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 22:4.1 Those without Name and Number constitute the third and last group of the Trinitized Sons of Attainment; they are the ascendant souls who have developed the ability to worship beyond the skill of all the sons and daughters of the evolutionary races from the worlds of time and space. They have acquired a spiritual concept of the eternal purpose of the Universal Father which comparatively transcends the comprehension of the evolutionary creatures of name or number; therefore are they denominated Those without Name and Number. More strictly translated, their name would be \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Those above Name and Number.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 22:4.7 You mortals who read this message may yourselves ascend to Paradise, attain the Trinity embrace, and in remote future ages be attached to the service of the Ancients of Days in one of the seven superuniverses, and sometime be assigned to enlarge the revelation of truth to some evolving inhabited planet, even as I am now functioning on Urantia.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ____________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Did you know spirit energy can be manipulated just as we manipulate physical energy? "There are just as certain and reliable laws in the spirit world as obtain in the material realms."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 44:5.4 3. Spiritual-energy manipulators. The manipulators of spiritual energy are an intriguing group. Spiritual energy acts in accordance with established laws, just as does physical energy. That is, spirit force, when studied, yields dependable deductions and can be precisely dealt with, even as can the physical energies. There are just as certain and reliable laws in the spirit world as obtain in the material realms. During the last few millions of years many improved techniques for the intake of spiritual energy have been effected by these students of the fundamental laws of the Eternal Son governing spirit energy as applied to the morontia and other orders of celestial beings throughout the universes.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Chapter Eleven: God's Plan For Salvation}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 VIII. The Guide For Miracles}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 You cannot see spirit but you can see its effects}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 62 Everyone in the world must play his part in the redemption of the world to recognize that the world has been redeemed. You cannot see the invisible. YET IF YOU SEE ITS EFFECTS, YOU KNOW IT MUST BE THERE. By perceiving what it does, you recognize its being. And by what it does, you learn what it is. You cannot see your abilities, but you gain confidence in their existence as they enable you to act. And the results of your actions you can see.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 63 The Holy Spirit is invisible, but you can see the results of His Presence, and through them you will learn that He is there. What He enables you to do is clearly not of this world, for miracles violate every law of reality as this world judges it. Every law of time and space, of magnitude and mass, of prediction and control is transcended, for what the Holy Spirit enables you to do is clearly beyond all of them. Perceiving His results, you will understand where He must be and finally know what He is.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 64 You cannot see the Holy Spirit, but you can see His manifestations. And unless you do, you will not realize He is there. Miracles are His witnesses and speak for His Presence. What you cannot see becomes real to you only through the witnesses who speak for it. For you can be aware of what you cannot see, and it can become compellingly real to you as its presence becomes manifest through you. Do the Holy Spirit's work, for you share in His function. As your function in Heaven is creation, so your function on earth is healing. God shares His function with you in Heaven, and the Holy Spirit shares His with you on earth.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 We look in before we look out. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 67 We said before that what you project is up to you, but it is not up to you whether to project, FOR PROJECTION IS A LAW OF MIND. Perception is projection, and you look in before you look out. As you look in you choose the guide for seeing, and then you look out and behold his witnesses. This is why you find what you seek. What you want in yourself, you will make manifest by projection, and you will accept it from the world because you put it there by wanting it.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 -----}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 EVER wondered what is meant by "your creations" in ACIM? }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 UB 108:6.5."These faithful custodians of the future career unfailingly duplicate every mental creation with a spiritual counterpart; they are thus slowly and surely re-creating you as you really are (only spiritually) for resurrection on the survival worlds. And all of these exquisite spirit re-creations are being preserved in the emerging reality of your evolving and immortal soul, your morontia self. These REALITIES are actually there, notwithstanding that the Adjuster is seldom able to exalt these duplicate these CREATIONS sufficiently to exhibit them to the light of consciousness."   }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: "Your creations are protected for you because the Holy Spirit, Who is in your mind, knows of them and can bring them into your awareness whenever you will let Him. They are there as part of your own being because your fulfillment includes them."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM Ch 6: "Whatever is in accord with this light, He retains to strengthen the Kingdom in you. What is partly in accord with truth, He accepts and purifies. But what is out of accord entirely, He rejects by judging against."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 110:2.4.Adjusters work in the spheres of the higher levels of the human mind, unceasingly seeking to produce morontia duplicates of EVERY CONCEPT of the mortal intellect.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: Chapter Ten: God and the EgoVIII. The Problem and the Answer70 Every loving thought that the Son of God ever had is eternal. Those which his mind perceived in this world are the world's only reality. They are still perceptions because he still believes that he is separate. Yet they are eternal because they are loving. And being loving, they are like the Father and therefore cannot die. The real world can actually be perceived.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 This sure sounds like the Thought Adjuster conterparting eternal memories. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM quote: "In your mind, and your mind   only, He sorts out the true from the false and teaches you to  judge every thought that you allow to enter your mind in the light of  what God put there. Whatever is in accord with this  light, He retains to strengthen the Kingdom in you. What is   partly in accord with truth, He accepts and purifies. But what  is out of accord entirely, He rejects by judging   against. This is how He keeps the Kingdom perfectly consistent  and perfectly unified."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ___________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 I have studied both the Urantia book and Course in Miracles off and on for30+ years. The course has always been a mind bender, the Urantia book is my foundation. But studying the course has helped me to take notice of the eternal perspective within the Urantia book. We will never logically reconcile time and eternity, material and spirit reality since they are polar opposites. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 12:8.13 The goal of existence of all personalities is spirit; material manifestations are relative, and the cosmic mind intervenes between these universal opposites.The Course concepts are in the Urantia book but in more subtle ways. This quote popped out to me the other day. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 14:4.10 The entire story of the creation of Havona is an attempt to time-space an eternity fact which HAS NO RELATION TO TIME OR SPACE AS MORTAL MAN COMPREHENDS THEM. But we must concede human philosophy a point of origin; even personalities far above the human level require a concept of "beginnings." Nevertheless, the Paradise-Havona system is eternal.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 So they dumbed down the "truth" so we can get some understanding of Havona which has no relation to time or space as we comprehend it. This is where logic falls apart. They have no words to describe eternity. And this quote. The Universal Father only see's personalities. The seven superuniverses are virtually nonexistent. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 15:0.1 AS FAR AS the Universal Father is concerned\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 as a Father\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the universes are virtually nonexistent; he deals with personalities; he is the Father of personalities. As far as the Eternal Son and the Infinite Spirit are concerned\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 as creator partners\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the universes are localized and individual under the joint rule of the Creator Sons and the Creative Spirits. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 8:3.2 Since the personalization of the Third Source, the First Source no more personally participates in universe creation. The Universal Father delegates everything possible to his Eternal Son; likewise does the Eternal Son bestow all possible authority and power upon the Conjoint Creator.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Anyone trying to logically transcend material reality will suffer conflict. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 159:3.7 Forewarn all believers regarding the fringe of conflict which must be traversed by all who pass from the life as it is lived in the flesh to the higher life as it is lived in the spirit. To those who live quite wholly within either realm, there is little conflict or confusion, but all are doomed to experience more or less uncertainty during the times of transition between the two levels of living. In entering the kingdom, you cannot escape its responsibilities or avoid its obligations, but remember: The gospel yoke is easy and the burden of truth is light.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ___________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: Chapter Thirteen: From Perception to Knowledge}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 V. The Guarantee of Heaven}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The Communication Link which God Himself placed within you, joining your minds with His, cannot be broken. You may believe you want it broken, and this belief does interfere with the deep peace in which the sweet and CONSTANT COMMUNICATION which God would share with you is known.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 110:1.1  And indirectly and unrecognized the Adjuster is CONSTANTLY COMMUNICATING with the human subject, especially during those sublime experiences of the worshipful contact of mind with spirit in the superconsciousness.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Not sure it's a great match but they both talk about past, present, and future. A mind bender. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: 48 Time can release as well as imprison, depending on whose interpretation of it you use. Past, present, and future are not continuous unless you force continuity on them. You can perceive them as continuous and make them so for you. But do not be deceived and then believe that this is how it is, for to believe that reality is what you would have it be according to your use for it is delusional. You would destroy time's continuity by breaking it into past, present, and future for your own purposes. You would anticipate the future on the basis of your past experience and plan for it accordingly. Yet by doing so, you are aligning past and future and not allowing the miracle, which could intervene between them, to free you to be born again.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 2:2.1 Even your olden prophets understood the eternal, never-beginning, never-ending, circular nature of the Universal Father. God is literally and eternally present in his universe of universes. He inhabits the present moment with all his absolute majesty and eternal greatness.}{\f1\fs22 \line }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 118:1.7 To become mature is to live more intensely in the present, at the same time escaping from the limitations of the present. The plans of maturity, founded on past experience, are coming into being in the present in such manner as to enhance the values of the future.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 118:1.8 The time unit of immaturity concentrates meaning-value into the present moment in such a way as to divorce the present of its true relationship to the not-present\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the past-future. The time unit of maturity is proportioned so to reveal the co-ordinate relationship of past-present-future that the self begins to gain insight into the wholeness of events, begins to view the landscape of time from the panoramic perspective of broadened horizons, begins perhaps to suspect the nonbeginning,  nonending eternal continuum, the FRAGMENTS OF WHICH ARE CALLED TIME.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ____________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Forgiveness has already been accomplished. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: 88 When you have let all that obscured the truth in your most holy mind be undone for you and stand in grace before your Father, He will give Himself to you as He has always done. Giving Himself is all He knows, and so it is all knowledge. For what He knows not cannot be and therefore cannot be given. ASK NOT TO BE FORGIVEN, FOR THIS HAS ALREADY BEEN ACCOMPLISHED. Ask, rather, to learn how to forgive and restore what always was to your unforgiving mind. Atonement becomes real and visible to them that use it. On earth this is your only function, and you must learn that it is all you want to learn.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 146:2.4 Even the forgiveness of sin operates in this same unerring fashion. THE FATHER IN HEAVEN HAS FORGIVEN YOU EVEN BEFORE YOU HAVE THOUGHT TO ASK HIM, but such forgiveness is not available in your personal religious experience until such a time as you forgive your fellow men. God's forgiveness in fact is not conditioned upon your forgiving your fellows, but in experience it is exactly so conditioned. And this fact of the synchrony of divine and human forgiveness was thus recognized and linked together in the prayer which Jesus taught the apostles.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ___________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Peace and understanding go together}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: 72 Those who remember always that they know nothing, but who have become willing to learn everything, will learn it. But whenever they trust themselves, they will not learn. They have destroyed their motivation for learning by thinking they already know. Think not you understand anything until you pass the test of perfect peace, for peace and understanding go together and never can be found alone. Each brings the other with it, for it is the law of God they be not separate. They are cause and effect, each to the other, so where one is absent the other cannot be.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 157:2.2 And there can be no peace in the heart or progress in the mind unless you fall wholeheartedly in love with truth, the ideals of eternal realities.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia 175:1.2 By rejecting the truth of God and the light of heaven, they are aligning themselves on the side of error and darkness. There cannot be peace between light and darkness, between life and death, between truth and error.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ____________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 11/29/2015 Paradox What is real?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 102:3.15  The eternal real is the good of the universe and not the time illusions of space evil.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: Chapter One: Introduction to MiraclesI. Principles of MiraclesOnly eternity is real. Why not use the illusion of time constructively?}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Here is another good quote. We need to consider the eternity viewpoint as already a factualization. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 106:9.5 The paradox created by the experiential and the existential viewpoints }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 is inevitable and is predicated in part on the fact that the Paradise }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Trinity and the Trinity of Trinities are each an eternity relationship }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 which mortals can only perceive as a time-space relativity. The human }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 concept of the gradual experiential actualization of the Trinity of }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Trinities\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the time viewpoint\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 must be supplemented by the additional }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 postulate that this is already a factualization\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the eternity viewpoint.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 More on paradox}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 105:3.10 The relationships of absolutes in eternity}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 cannot always be presented without involving paradoxes in the language of time}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 and in the concept patterns of space.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ____________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 I noticed another parallel when responding to Johns post. Creation is limited by it's creator. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The acceptance of the Atonement by everyone is only a matter of time. In fact, both time and matter were created for this purpose. This appears to contradict FREE WILL because of the inevitability of the final decision. If you review the idea carefully, however, you will realize that this is not true. Everything is limited in some way by the manner of its creation. FREE WILL can temporize and is capable of enormous procrastination. BUT IT CANNOT DEPART ENTIRELY FROM ITS CREATOR, WHO SET THE LIMITS ON ITS ABILITY TO MISCREATE BY VIRTUE OF ITS OWN REAL PURPOSE.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 118:9.2 Mechanisms produced by higher minds function to liberate their creative sources but to some degree unvaryingly LIMIT THE ACTION OF ALL SUBORDINATE INTELLIGENCES. To the creatures of the universes this limitation becomes apparent as the mechanism of the universes. Man does not have unfettered free will; there are limits to his range of choice, but within the radius of this choice his will is relatively sovereign.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ____________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Spiritual Experiences }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The God-knowing man describes his spiritual experiences, not to convince unbelievers, but for the edification and mutual satisfaction of believers. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The Urantia Book, (1:6.6)}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 10 The use of miracles as spectacles to induce belief is wrong, or better, is a misunderstanding of their purpose. They are really used for and by believers.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ____________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Here is a good introduction to the lessons. After studying the text we should have a good idea of the goal. "The speed by which it can be reached depends on this one thing alone\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 your willingness to practice every step." Anyone who has done the course lessons knows it can cause "considerable commotion". }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Chapter Thirty: The New Beginning}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 I. Introduction}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 1 The new beginning now becomes the focus of the curriculum. The goal is clear, but now you need specific methods for attaining it. The speed by which it can be reached depends on this one thing alone\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 your willingness to practice every step. Each one will help a little every time it is attempted. And together will these steps lead you from dreams of judgment to forgiving dreams and out of pain and fear. They are not new to you, but they are more ideas than rules of thought to you as yet. So now we need to practice them awhile, until they are the rules by which you live. We seek to make them habits now, so you will have them ready for whatever need.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 100:4.2 Religious perplexities are inevitable; there can be no growth without psychic conflict and spiritual agitation. The organization of a philosophic standard of living entails considerable commotion in the philosophic realms of the mind. Loyalties are not exercised in behalf of the great, the good, the true, and the noble without a struggle. Effort is attendant upon clarification of spiritual vision and enhancement of cosmic insight. And the human intellect protests against being weaned from subsisting upon the nonspiritual energies of temporal existence. The slothful animal mind rebels at the effort required to wrestle with cosmic problem solving.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ____________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 I have always been curious about the Course stating that we will remember who we are, implying some kind of pre-existence. This quote from the Urantia book states that when we fuse we will be endowed with a kind of past-eternity memory. "PAST-ETERNITY EXPERIENCE AND MEMORY" }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 112:7.1 Thought Adjuster fusion imparts eternal actualities to personality which were previously only potential. Among these new endowments may be mentioned: fixation of divinity quality, PAST-ETERNITY EXPERIENCE AND MEMORY, immortality, and a phase of qualified potential absoluteness}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  JCIM: "To remember is merely to restore to your mind what is already there. You do not make what you remember; you merely accept again what has been made but was rejected. The ability to accept truth in this world is the perceptual counterpart of creating in the Kingdom. God will do His part if you will do yours, and His return in exchange for yours is the exchange of knowledge for perception. Nothing is beyond His Will for you. But signify your will to remember Him and behold! He will give you everything but for the asking."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 It makes sense that when we share the adjusters "history" we will remember a kind of past-eternity memory. After all, we become one with the Adjuster. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 112:7.8 But the fused individual is really one personality, one being, whose unity defies all attempts at analysis by any intelligence of the universes. And so, having passed the tribunals of the local universe from the lowest to the highest, none of which have been able to identify man or Adjuster, the one apart from the other,   you shall finally be taken before the Sovereign of Nebadon, your local universe Father. And there, at the hand of the very being whose creative fatherhood in this universe of time has made possible the fact of your life, you will be granted those credentials which entitle you eventually to proceed upon your superuniverse career in quest of the Universal Father.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 In this context these quotes below make more sense.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 117:6.1 The Supreme is your universe home, and when you find him, it will be like returning home. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Chapter Twenty One: The Inner Picture}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 II. The Imagined World}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Listen\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 perhaps you catch a hint of an ancient state not quite forgotten; dim, perhaps, and yet not altogether unfamiliar, like a song whose name is long forgotten, and the circumstances in which you heard completely unremembered. Not the whole song has stayed with you, but just a little wisp of melody, attached not to a person or a place or anything particular. But you remember from just this little part how lovely was the song, how wonderful the setting where you heard it, and how you loved those who were there and listened with you.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ____________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Tracey posted this Urantia quote below in the Urantia group and it reminded me of something in the Course from lesson 19 below. I remember the first time I read that lesson I didn't like the idea that we have no private thoughts. But here it is in the Urantia book. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 28:6.19 The real nature of any service, be it rendered by man or angel, is fully revealed in the faces of these secoraphic service indicators, the Sanctities of Service. The full analysis of the true and of the hidden motives is clearly shown. These angels are indeed the mind readers, heart searchers, and soul revealers of the universe. Mortals may employ words to conceal their thoughts, but these high seconaphim lay bare the deep motives of the human heart and of the angelic mind.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 L e s s o n  19}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Today we are again emphasizing the fact that minds are joined. This is rarely a wholly welcome idea at first, since it seems to carry with it an enormous sense of responsibility and may even be regarded as an "invasion of privacy." Yet it is a fact that there are no private thoughts. Despite your initial resistance to this idea, you will yet understand that it must be true if salvation is possible at all. And salvation must be possible because it is the Will of God.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ____________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 These two quotes are similar in concept. Too late to make any profound comments. LOL}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: You can be wholly reliable and entirely wrong}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: One can be technically right as to fact and everlastingly wrong in the truth.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 48:6.33 Law is life itself and not the rules of its conduct. Evil is a transgression of law, not a violation of the rules of conduct pertaining to life, which is the law. Falsehood is not a matter of narration technique but something premeditated as a perversion of truth. The creation of new pictures out of old facts, the restatement of parental life in the lives of offspring\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 these are the artistic triumphs of truth. The shadow of a hair's turning, premeditated for an untrue purpose, the slightest twisting or perversion of that which is principle\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 these constitute falseness. But the fetish of factualized truth, fossilized truth, the iron band of so-called unchanging truth, holds one blindly in a closed circle of cold fact. One can be technically right as to fact and everlastingly wrong in the truth.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Chapter One: Introduction to Miracles}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 II.  Distortions of Miracle Impulses}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 102 A rigid orientation can be extremely reliable, even if it is upside-down. In fact, the more consistently upside-down it is, the more reliable it is.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 103  However, validity is still the ultimate goal, which reliability can only serve. Hostility, triumph, vengeance, self-debasement, and all kinds of expressions of lack of love are often very clearly seen in the fantasies which accompany them. But it is a profound error to imagine that because these fantasies are so frequent or occur so reliably that this implies validity. Remember that while validity implies reliability, the relationship is not reversible. You can be wholly reliable and entirely wrong. While a reliable instrument does measure something, what use is it unless you discover what the "something" is? This course, then, will concentrate on validity and let reliability fall naturally into place.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 __________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Replace soul with adjuster }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The course uses different terms to convey similar concepts. The use of the term Sonship seems to be interchangeable with God the Supreme. Another term that seems to be interchangeable is soul and thought adjuster. When reading the course, if you replace soul with adjuster it seems to fit. Does anybody else see this? Below I replaced the word soul with (Adjuster)}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 God and the (Adjusters) He created are completely dependent on each other. The creation of the (Adjuster) has already been perfectly accomplished, but the creation by (Adjusters) has not. God created (Adjusters) so He could depend on them because He created them perfectly. He gave them His peace so they could not be shaken and would be unable to be deceived. Whenever you are afraid, you are deceived. Your mind is not serving the (Adjuster). }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 This is because the mind is split between the ego and the (Adjuster), so that whatever the ego makes is incomplete and contradictory}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 They \{miracles\} heal because they deny body-identification and affirm (Adjuster)-identification}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 40:5.4 Spirit identification  constitutes the secret of personal survival and determines the destiny }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 of spiritual ascension. And since the Thought Adjusters are the only spirits of fusion potential to be identified with man during the life in the flesh,}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The (Adjuster) never loses its communion with God. Only the mind needs Atonement.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 But the Atonement restores the (Adjuster) to its proper place}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (Adjusters) are perfect creations and experience awe only in the Presence of the Creator of perfection.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Against this sense of temporary existence the (Adjuster) offers you the knowledge of permanence and unshakable being.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The Holy Spirit is the part of the mind that lies between the ego and the (Adjuster), mediating between them always in favor of the (Adjuster).}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The (Adjuster) yearns to share its being as its Creator did. Created by sharing, its will is to create. It does not wish to contain God but to extend His Being. The extension of God's Being is the (Adjusters) only function.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The mind returns to its proper function only when it wills to know. This places it in the (Adjusters) service, where perception is meaningless. The superconscious is the level of the mind which wills this.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 God and the (Adjusters) He created remain in surety, and therefore know that no miscreation exists.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 I was a man who remembered the (Adjuster) and its knowledge, and as a man I did not attempt to counteract error with knowledge so much as to correct error from the bottom up.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 34 The (Adjuster) in its knowledge is unaware of the ego. It does not attack it; it merely cannot conceive of it at all. While the ego is equally unaware of the (Adjuster), it does perceive itself as rejected by "something" which is greater than itself. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The term "salvation" does not apply to the (Adjuster), which is not in danger and does not need to be salvaged. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Your (Adjuster) does not need salvation, but your mind needs to learn what salvation is.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 33 The peace of your (Adjuster) lies in its limitlessness. Limit the peace you share, and your own (Adjuster) must be unknown to you. Every altar to God is part of your (Adjuster) because the light He created is one with Him.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 2 You can speak from the (Adjuster) or from the ego, precisely as you choose. If you speak from the (Adjuster), you have chosen "to be still and know that I am God."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Eternity is an idea of God, so the (Adjuster) understands it perfectly.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The Holy Spirit is the Mediator between the interpretations of the ego and the knowledge of the (Adjuster).}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The reason only the mind can create is more obvious than may be immediately apparent. The (Adjuster) has been created}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 To repeat an earlier statement and to extend it somewhat, the (Adjuster) is already perfect and therefore does not require correction}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 God did create the (Adjuster) in His own Thought and of a quality like to His own.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Each (Adjuster) knows God completely. That is the miraculous power of the (Adjuster).}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 God projected His creative ability from Himself to the (Adjusters) He created, and He also imbued them with the same loving will to create. The (Adjuster) has not only been fully created but has also been created perfect. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Peace is a natural heritage of the (Adjuster).}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 --------------------}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: Truth can only be experienced. It cannot be described, and it cannot be explained.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Find parallel }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 -----}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 True perception is the basis for knowledge }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 __________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Limits of time/space}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 I consider the Course in Miracles a personal revelation. The course is a conscious attempt by Helen to take dictation from Jesus or one who spoke on behalf of Jesus. The process relied heavily on Helens own conceptual framework. However, when you start comparing the concepts between the two with that thought in mind, we do find similarities.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Below we have a concept of creating limitations within time and space. The idea of the \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93separation\u8221\'94 used in the course seems to cover more than one event. It refers to the split of Adam and Eve but also seems to hint about the Lucifer rebellion (even mentions Lucifer in the urText). It also seems to refer to the beginning of time and space and the thought process that took place when conceiving of a type of \u8220\'93separation\u8221\'94 from eternity. Below is a quote that seems to overlap with language in the Urantia book about putting limits on freewill choice. It says \u8220\'93acts were not necessary before the separation because the time-space belief did not exist\u8221\'94. Is this a reference to the thought process at the beginning of time from a creator\u8217\'92s perspective?}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: The Atonement principle was in effect long before the Atonement itself began. The principle was love, and the Atonement itself was an act of love. ACTS WERE NOT NECESSARY BEFORE THE SEPARATION BECAUSE THE TIME-SPACE BELIEF DID NOT EXIST. It was only after the separation that the defense of Atonement and the necessary conditions for its fulfillment were planned.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: The Atonement was BUILT INTO THE SPACE-TIME BELIEF IN ORDER TO SET A LIMIT ON THE NEED FOR THE BELIEF and ultimately to make learning complete. The Atonement is the final lesson.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: The acceptance of the Atonement by everyone is only a matter of time. In fact, BOTH TIME AND MATTER WERE CREATED FOR THIS PURPOSE.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Now compare the above quotes to similar language used in the Urantia book about setting limits on time and space.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 118:8.5 The whole principle of biologic evolution makes it impossible for primitive man to appear on the inhabited worlds with any large endowment of self-restraint. Therefore does the same creative design which purposed evolution likewise provide those external RESTRAINTS OF TIME AND SPACE, HUNGER AND FEAR, WHICH EFFECTIVELY CIRCUMSCRIBE THE SUBSPIRITUAL CHOICE RANGE of such uncultured creatures. As man\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s mind successfully overstrides increasingly difficult barriers, this same creative design has also provided for the slow accumulation of the racial heritage of painfully garnered experiential wisdom\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 in other words, for the maintenance of a balance between the diminishing external restraints and the augmenting internal restraints.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 118:8.1 In the time-space creations, free will is hedged about with restraints, with limitations. Material-life evolution is first mechanical, then mind activated, and (after the bestowal of personality) it may become spirit directed.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The language is not identical but similarities do exist in the language used.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 __________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The course doesn't make clear distinctions between God and adjuster. But they are there in subtle ways. I find it odd that God can be lonely but here we have quotes from both books saying just that. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The Bible repeatedly states that you should praise God. This hardly means that you should tell Him how wonderful He is. He has no ego with which to accept such thanks and no perception with which to judge such offerings. But unless you take your part in the creation, His joy is not complete because yours is incomplete. And this He does know. He knows it in His own Being and its experience of His Son's experience. The constant going out of His love is blocked when His channels are closed, and HE IS LONELY  when the minds He created do not communicate fully with Him.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 107:6.2 (1182.4) The Adjuster is man\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s eternity possibility; man is the Adjuster\u8217\'92s personality possibility. Your individual Adjusters work to spiritize you in the hope of eternalizing your temporal identity. The Adjusters are saturated with the beautiful and self-bestowing love of the Father of spirits. They truly and divinely love you; they are the prisoners of spirit hope confined within the minds of men. They long for the divinity attainment of your mortal minds THAT THEIR LONELINESS MAY END, that they may be delivered with you from the limitations of material investiture and the habiliments of time.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 __________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Judgment vs Vision}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 This quote from chapter 21 of the text caught my attention tonight. I know the course has been saying we need to relinquish judgment but I didn\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t notice that it says we can replace our judgment with the Holy Spirit\u8217\'92s vision. That sounds similar to the quote in the Urantia book that says if our mind doesn\u8217\'92t serve us well we can replace it with the mind of Jesus. Holy Spirit vision as the Course describes it seems to be that mind. So what does the Course say about vision as a replacement for judgment?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM quote: \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93How foolish it is to attempt to judge what could be seen instead. It is not necessary to imagine what the world must look like. It must be seen before you recognize it for what it is. You can be shown which doors are open, and you can see where safety lies and which way leads to darkness, which to light. Judgment will always give you false directions, but vision shows you where to go. Why should you guess?\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 So can we access the Holy Spirit mind as a substitute for our material mind? Will it replace the function of judgment we rely on so much?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia quote: (553.7) 48:6.26 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Even on Urantia, these seraphim teach the everlasting truth: If your own mind does not serve you well, you can exchange it for the mind of Jesus of Nazareth, who always serves you well.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM quote: 51 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93There is another vision and another Voice in which your freedom lies awaiting but your choice. And if you place your faith in them, you will perceive another Self in you. This other Self sees miracles as natural. They are as simple and natural to It as breathing to the body.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 These two kinda go together so I didn't separate them. ----------}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 If you believe the Course in Miracles is Jesus speaking, then you know from the course that the mind of Jesus referred to in the Urantia book is the Holy Spirit mind.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 48:6.26 Even on Urantia, these seraphim teach the everlasting truth: If your own mind does not serve you well, you can exchange it for the MIND OF JESUS of Nazareth, who always serves you well.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: The Holy Spirit is nothing more than your own right mind. HE WAS ALSO MINE. The Bible says, "May the mind be in you that was also in Christ Jesus," and uses this as a blessing. It is the blessing of miracle-mindedness. It asks that you may think as I thought, joining with me in Christ-thinking.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Chapter Five: Healing and Wholeness}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 II. Healing As Joining}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 As we progress in circle attainment we rely more on this Holy Spirit mind and less on the adjutant mind (ego mind?).}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 110:6.20 From the seventh to the third circle there occurs increased and unified action of the seven adjutant mind-spirits in the task of weaning the mortal mind from its dependence on the realities of the material life mechanisms preparatory to increased introduction to morontia levels of experience. From the third circle onward the ADJUTANT INFLUENCE PROGRESSIVELY DIMINISHES.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 110:6.21 The seven circles embrace mortal experience extending from the highest purely animal level to the lowest actual contactual morontia level of self-consciousness as a personality experience. The mastery of the first cosmic circle signalizes the attainment of premorontia mortal maturity and marks the TERMINATION OF THE CONJOINT MINISTRY OF THE ADJUTANT MIND-SPIRITS AS AN EXCLUSIVE INFLUENCE OF MIND ACTION IN THE HUMAN PERSONALITY. Beyond the first circle, mind becomes increasingly akin to the intelligence of the morontia stage of evolution, the conjoined ministry of the cosmic mind and the superadjutant endowment of the Creative Spirit of a local universe.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 __________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Here's an interesting quote on judgment from the teachers manual. I wasn't clear on the role of judgment until I ran across this. Does anybody think this is attainable?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM quote: "As the teacher of God advances in his training, he learns one lesson with increasing thoroughness. He does not make his own decisions; he asks his Teacher for His answer, and it is this he follows as his guide for action. This becomes easier and easier as the teacher of God learns to give up his own judgment. The giving up of judgment, the obvious prerequisite for hearing God's Voice, is usually a fairly slow process, not because it is difficult, but because it is apt to be perceived as personally insulting. The world's training is directed toward achieving a goal in direct opposition to that of our curriculum. The world trains for reliance on one's judgment as the criterion for maturity and strength. Our curriculum trains for the relinquishment of judgment as the necessary condition of salvation.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Stuart Kerr Here's another topic that I find it very challenging to reconcile with The Urantia Book. As you point out, the CIM says a true teacher "does not make his own decisions," but rather cedes such decision-making to "his Teacher for His answer." [Interesting use of Caps] Such a teacher is urged to "give up his own judgment." The CIM strongly emphasizes this position by saying its directive is counterintuitive to common sense, yet this "curriculum trains for the relinquishment of judgment as the necessary condition of salvation."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 For me, this CIM teaching is antithetical to UB teaching. The UB stresses the supreme importance of personal decision-making in the acquirement of survival values: P578:3, 50:6.3 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Effort and decision are an essential part of the acquirement of survival values.\u8221\'94 The UB very strongly pronounces the criticality of personal decision-maling; P435:7, 39:4.14 \u8220\'93The keys of the kingdom of heaven are: sincerity, more sincerity, and more sincerity. All men have these keys. Men use them -- advance in spirit status -- by decisions, by more decisions, and by more decisions.\u8221\'94 Finally, I would present the UB\u8217\'92s waxing poetic on just how important it is for a son or daughter of our freewill Father in heaven to exercise his freewill prerogatives for personal decision-making \endash  the destiny of God\u8217\'92s Supreme creation depends on it: P1233:1, 112:5.5 "And it is this very power of choice, the universe insignia of freewill creaturehood, that constitutes man's greatest opportunity and his supreme cosmic responsibility. Upon the integrity of the human volition depends the eternal destiny of the future finaliter; upon the sincerity of the mortal free will the divine Adjuster depends for eternal personality; upon the faithfulness of mortal choice the Universal Father depends for the realization of a new ascending son; upon the steadfastness and wisdom of decision-actions the Supreme Being depends for the actuality of experiential evolution."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Brian, I don\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t know how this discrepancy can be reconciled \endash  I know I don\u8217\'92t know how I could do it.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 __________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Here we have similar quotes from Jesus in both the Urantia book and Jesus Course in Miracles.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 3. Sabbath Sermon at Pella}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia quote: (1820.2) 165:3.3 Jesus \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93But I say to you, my friends, when they seek to destroy the Son of Man, be not afraid of them. Fear not those who, ALTHOUGH THEY MAY BE ABLE TO KILL THE BODY, AFTER THAT HAVE NO MORE POWER OVER YOU. I admonish you to FEAR NONE, in heaven or on earth, but to rejoice in the knowledge of Him who has power to deliver you from all unrighteousness and to present you blameless before the judgment seat of a universe.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 4. Sending the Apostles Out Two and Two}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia quote: (1681.9) 150:4.2 Jesus \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93And I say to you, MY FRIENDS AND DISCIPLES, BE NOT AFRAID OF THOSE WHO CAN KILL THE BODY, BUT WHO ARE NOT ABLE TO DESTROY THE SOUL; rather put your trust in Him who is able to sustain the body and save the soul.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM quote: }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Chapter Six: Attack and Fear}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 II. The Message of the Crucifixion}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 You have reacted for years as if you were being crucified. This is a marked tendency of the separated ones, who always refuse to consider what they have done to themselves. Projection means anger, anger fosters assault, and assault promotes fear. The real meaning of the crucifixion lies in the apparent intensity of the assault of some of the Sons of God upon another. This, of course, is impossible and must be fully understood as an impossibility. In fact unless it is fully understood as only that, I cannot serve as a real model for learning.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 7 ASSAULT CAN ULTIMATELY BE MADE ONLY ON THE BODY. THERE IS LITTLE DOUBT THAT ONE BODY CAN ASSAULT ANOTHER AND CAN EVEN DESTROY IT. YET IF DESTRUCTION ITSELF IS IMPOSSIBLE, THEN ANYTHING THAT IS DESTRUCTIBLE CANNOT BE REAL. Therefore, its destruction does not justify anger. To the extent to which you believe that it does, you must be accepting false premises and teaching them to others. The message which the crucifixion was intended to teach was that it is not necessary to perceive any form of assault in persecution because you cannot be persecuted. If you respond with anger, you must be equating yourself with the destructible and are therefore regarding yourself insanely.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 __________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Jesus made the discovery in time and even mortals important taste the same Discovery}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Match this quote from Paper 101 with something from the court that says Jesus live as a man. See if there is something that syncs up}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 __________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Look up recognition vs judgment }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 __________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Having made time it is capable of perceiving its opposite. Did the infinite spirit (mind) make time?}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 __________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 This sounds like a God the Supreme reference. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The full power of creation cannot be expressed as long as any of God's ideas withhold it from the Kingdom. The joint will of all the Sonship is the only creator that can create like the Father because only the complete can think completely, and the thinking of God lacks nothing. Everything you think that is not through the Holy Spirit is lacking.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 __________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Here are two interesting quotes that just seem odd to me. Who would question the idea of thoughts occupying space? Apparently it's worth asking by both the Urantia Book and the Course in Miracles. They do have slightly different takes on it.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 118:3.7 All patterns of reality occupy space on the material levels, but spirit patterns only exist in relation to space; they do not occupy or displace space, neither do they contain it. But to us the master riddle of space pertains to the pattern of an idea. When we enter the mind domain, we encounter many a puzzle. DOES THE PATTERN\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 THE REALITY\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 OF AN IDEA OCCUPY SPACE? We really do not know, albeit we are sure that an idea pattern does not contain space. But it would hardly be safe to postulate that the immaterial is always nonspatial.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Chapter Five: Healing and Wholeness}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 VI. Therapy and Teaching}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Ideas do not leave the mind which thought them to have a separate being, NOR DO SEPARATE THOUGHTS CONFLICT WITH ONE ANOTHER IN SPACE BECAUSE THEY DO NOT OCCUPY SPACE AT ALL. However, human ideas can conflict in content because they occur at different levels and include opposite thoughts at the same level. It is impossible to share opposing thoughts. The Holy Spirit does not let you forsake your brothers. Therefore, you can really share only the parts of your thoughts which are of Him and which He also keeps for you. And of such is the Kingdom of Heaven. All the rest remains with you until He has reinterpreted them in the light of the Kingdom, making them, too, worthy of being shared. When they have been sufficiently purified, He lets you give them away. The will to share them is their purification.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 __________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Here is a parallel somewhat similar. We are constantly adjusting our }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 egos and the egos we make for others. It is a constant adjustment of one}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  self to other selves. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Chapter Four: The Root of All Evil}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22   III. The Ego and False Autonomy}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Each man makes one ego for himself, although it is subject to enormous variation because of its instability, and one for everyone he perceives, which is equally variable. Their interaction is a process which literally alters both, because they were not made either by or with the unalterable. It is particularly important to realize that this alteration can and does occur as readily when the interaction takes place in the mind as when it involves physical presence. Thinking about another ego is as effective in changing relative perception as is physical interaction. There could be no better example of the fact that the ego is an idea, though not a reality-based thought.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 99:5.1 While religion is exclusively a personal spiritual experience \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  knowing God as a Father \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  the corollary of this experience \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  knowing man as a brother \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  entails the adjustment of the self to other selves, and that involves the social or group aspect of religious life. Religion is first an inner or personal adjustment, and then it becomes a matter of social service or group adjustment. The fact of man\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s gregariousness perforce determines that religious groups will come into existence. What happens to these religious groups depends very much on intelligent leadership. In primitive society the religious group is not always very different from economic or political groups. Religion has always been a conservator of morals and a stabilizer of society. And this is still true, notwithstanding the contrary teaching of many modern socialists and humanists.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 __________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Match this with quote about people enduring hardship because they know what Jesus went through.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 15 My brothers and yours are constantly engaged in justifying the unjustifiable. My one lesson, which I must teach as I learned, is that no perception which is out of accord with the judgment of the Holy Spirit can be justified. I undertook to show this was true in a very extreme case merely because it would serve as a good teaching aid to those whose temptations to give in to anger and assault would not be so extreme. I will with God that none of His Sons should suffer.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 __________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The goal of meditation is to experience eternity and bring a clear reflection of unity back to bless the world. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 This says Jesus "went a moment into timelessness and}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 brought a clear reflection of the unity he felt an instant back to bless the}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 world".}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Lesson: "What is the face of Christ but his who went a moment into timelessness and brought a clear reflection of the unity he felt an instant back to bless the world? How could you finally attain to it forever while a part of you remains outside, unknowing, unawakened, and in need of you as witness to the truth?"}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 When Jesus fused, his adjuster "took great pains"}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 to inform him of the limitations he could place on the celestial hosts when it}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 came to limiting time miracles.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 136:5.4 Accordingly was Jesus admonished that,}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 while the Adjuster's control of the living intelligences placed under his}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 command would be complete and perfect as to all matters involving space, there}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 could be no such perfect limitations imposed regarding time. Said the Adjuster:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93I will, as you have directed, enjoin the employment of this attendant host of}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 universe intelligences in any manner in connection with your earth career}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 except in those cases where the Paradise Father directs me to release such}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 agencies in order that his divine will of your choosing may be accomplished,}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 and in those instances where you may engage in any choice or act of your}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 divine-human will which shall only involve departures from the natural earth}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 order as to time. In all such events I am powerless, and your creatures here}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 assembled in perfection and unity of power are likewise helpless. If your}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 united natures once entertain such desires, these mandates of your choice will}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 be forthwith executed. Your wish in all such matters will constitute the}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 abridgment of time, and the thing projected is existent. Under my command this}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 constitutes the fullest possible limitation which can be imposed upon your potential}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 sovereignty. In my self-consciousness time is nonexistent, and therefore I}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 cannot limit your creatures in anything related thereto.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 There is definitely a connection between timelessness and miracles. Once Jesus reached fusion he was able to bypass time if his will lined up with the Fathers will.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 __________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Language limits when describing eternity concepts}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 When I read this course quote below I think of the Universal Father as}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 described in the Urantia book. \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93It must be understood that the word "first"}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 as applied to Him is not a time concept.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 Both the course and the Urantia book}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 are trying to convey eternal reality using time bound language. In truth we can}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 only experience this eternal reality. Any attempt to describe it will reduce it}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 to limiting ideas. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93God does not take steps because His accomplishments are not gradual. He does not teach because His creations are changeless. HE DOES NOTHING LAST BECAUSE HE CREATED FIRST AND FOR ALWAYS. IT MUST BE UNDERSTOOD THAT THE WORD "FIRST" AS APPLIED TO HIM IS NOT A TIME CONCEPT. He is first in the sense that He is the first in the Holy Trinity itself. He is the Prime Creator because He created His co-creators. Because He did, time applies neither to Him nor to what He created. The "last step" that God will take was therefore true in the beginning, is true now, and will be true forever.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 8 WHAT IS TIMELESS IS ALWAYS THERE BECAUSE ITS BEING IS ETERNALLY}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 CHANGELESS. IT DOES NOT CHANGE BY INCREASE BECAUSE IT WAS FOREVER CREATED TO INCREASE. If you perceive it as not increasing, you do not know what it is. You}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 also do not know what created it or Who He is. God does not reveal this to you}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 because it was never hidden. His light was never obscured because it is His}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Will to share it. How can what is fully shared be withheld and then revealed?\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 There is no language to describe eternal reality to us time bound mortals.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The authors in the Urantia book admit this in the quote below. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia: 6:0.1 The eternal son is the perfect and final expression of the}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93first\u8221\'94 personal and absolute concept of the Universal Father. Accordingly,}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 whenever and however the Father personally and absolutely expresses himself, he}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 does so through his Eternal Son, who ever has been, now is, and ever will be,}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 the living and divine Word. And this Eternal Son is residential at the center}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 of all things, in association with, and immediately enshrouding the personal}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 presence of, the Eternal and Universal Father.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 6:0.2 WE SPEAK OF GOD'S \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93FIRST\u8221\'94 THOUGHT AND ALLUDE TO AN IMPOSSIBLE TIME}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ORIGIN of the Eternal Son for the purpose of gaining access to the thought}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 channels of the human intellect. Such distortions of language represent our}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 best efforts at CONTACT-COMPROMISE WITH THE TIME-BOUND MINDS OF MORTAL}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 CREATURES. IN THE SEQUENTIAL SENSE THE UNIVERSAL FATHER NEVER COULD HAVE HAD A}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 FIRST THOUGHT, NOR COULD THE ETERNAL SON EVER HAVE HAD A BEGINNING. But I was}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 instructed to portray the realities of eternity to the time-limited minds of}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 mortals by such symbols of thought and to designate the relationships of}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 eternity by such time concepts of sequentiality.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 And a few more time distortion}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 quotes to ponder. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 0:1.13 The absolute level is beginningless, endless,}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 timeless, and spaceless. For example: On Paradise, time and space are}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 nonexistent; the time-space status of Paradise is absolute. This level is}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Trinity attained, existentially, by the Paradise Deities, but this third level}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 of unifying Deity expression is not fully unified experientially. Whenever,}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 wherever, and however the absolute level of Deity functions, Paradise-absolute}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 values and meanings are manifest.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 8:1.10 And we thus portray the sequential origin of}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 the Third Source and Center as an interpretative condescension to the}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 time-bound and space-conditioned mind of mortal creatures. The mind of man must}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 have a starting point for the visualization of universe history, and I have}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 been directed to provide this technique of approach to the historic concept of}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 eternity. In the material mind, consistency demands a First Cause; therefore do}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 we postulate the Universal Father as the First Source and the Absolute Center}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 of all creation, at the same time instructing all creature minds that the Son}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 and the Spirit are coeternal with the Father in all phases of universe history}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 and in all realms of creative activity. And we do this without in any sense}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 being disregardful of the reality and eternity of the Isle of Paradise and of}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 the Unqualified, Universal, and Deity Absolutes.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 4:4.1 God is the only stationary, self-contained, and changeless being in the whole universe of universes, having no outside, no beyond, no past, and no future. God is purposive energy (creative spirit) and absolute will, and these are self-existent and universal.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 __________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ?????}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Match with Jesus appealing to the spirit}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  As has so often been said, healing is both an art and a science. It is an art because it depends on inspiration in the sense that we have already used the term. Inspiration is the opposite of dispiriting and therefore means to make joyous. The dispirited are depressed because they believe that they are literally "without the Spirit," which is an illusion. You do not put the Spirit in them by inspiring them because that would be magic and therefore would not be real healing. You do, however, recognize the Spirit that is already there and thereby reawaken it. This is why the healer is part of the resurrection and the life. The Spirit is not asleep in the minds of the sick, but the part of the mind that can perceive it and be glad is.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ____________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 I never fully understood this comment from Jesus. \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Whosoever shall save his}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 life shall lose it, but whosoever shall lose his life for the sake of the}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 kingdom, shall find it\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94. I ran across something last night in the course that}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 seemed to give this statement some clarity. But first think about this}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 definition of worship from the Urantia book. 143:7.8 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Worship is the act of a}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 part identifying itself with the Whole\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94. 143:7.7 \u8220\'93worship is}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 self-forgetting\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 superthinking\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Read this and let me know if it makes sense or how to clarify the connection.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Chapter Twenty Six: The Transition}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 II. The "Sacrifice" of Oneness}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 2 The world you see is based on "sacrifice" of oneness. It is a}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 picture of a complete disunity and total lack of joining. Around each entity is}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 built a wall so seeming solid that it looks as if what is inside can never}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 reach without, and what is out can never reach and join with what is locked}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 away within the wall. EACH PART MUST SACRIFICE THE OTHER PART TO KEEP ITSELF}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 COMPLETE. FOR IF THEY JOINED, EACH ONE WOULD LOSE ITS OWN IDENTITY, AND BY}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 THEIR SEPARATION ARE THEIR SELVES MAINTAINED.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 3 The little that the body fences off becomes the self, PRESERVED THROUGH}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 SACRIFICE OF ALL THE REST. And all the rest must lose this little part,}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 REMAINING INCOMPLETE TO KEEP ITS OWN IDENTITY INTACT. In this perception of}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 yourself, the body's loss would be a sacrifice indeed. For sight of bodies}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 becomes the sign that sacrifice is limited and something still remains for you}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 alone. And for this little to belong to you are limits placed on everything}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 outside, just as they are on everything you think is yours. For giving and}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 receiving are the same. And to accept the limits of a body is to impose these}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 limits on each brother whom you see. For you must see him as you see yourself.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 It seems that in the course, Jesus is describing the thinking process behind}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 the comment he made about losing his life for the sake of the kingdom. We try}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 to save ourselves by thinking we are completely self-contained units with no}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 connection to each other, I am a body. If we maintain this separation, we lose}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 our life (I assume it means we don\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t fuse). It is difficult to balance the}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 interest of the self with the interests of other selves. But if we see}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ourselves as one self, we will find our Self. \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93but whosoever shall lose his}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 life for the sake of the kingdom, shall find it\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94. So we lose the idea that we}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 are one little self and find our life as the big Self. Now read the quote below}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 where the revelators try to give some clarity to Jesus comment.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 103:5.6 The attempt to secure equal good for the self and for the greatest}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 number of other selves presents a problem which cannot always be satisfactorily}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 resolved in a time-space frame. Given an eternal life, such antagonisms can be}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 worked out, but in one short human life they are incapable of solution. Jesus}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 referred to such a paradox when he said: "Whosoever shall save his life}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 shall lose it, but whosoever shall lose his life for the sake of the kingdom,}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 shall find it."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Definition of paradox: At the most basic level, a paradox is a statement}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 that is self contradictory because it often contains two statements that are}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 both true, but in general, cannot both be true at the same time.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ____________________________________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 In the course Jesus says \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93my will cannot overcome yours, because yours is as powerful as mine.\u8221\'94 the Urantia book is in total agreement with this, \u8220\'93the creator refuses to coerce or compel the submission of the spiritual free wills of his material creatures.\u8221\'94, \u8220\'93no other being, force, creator, or agency in all the wide universe of universes can interfere to any degree with the absolute sovereignty of the mortal free will\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM:Chapter Eight: The Journey BackV. The Light of the WorldThe will to unite must be unequivocal, or the will itself is divided or not whole. Your will is the means by which you determine your own condition, because will is the mechanism of decision. It is the power by which you separate or join and experience pain or joy accordingly. MY WILL CANNOT OVERCOME YOURS, BECAUSE YOURS IS AS POWERFUL AS MINE. If it were not so, the Sons of God would be unequal. All things are possible through our joint will, but my will alone cannot help you. YOUR WILL IS AS FREE AS MINE, AND GOD HIMSELF WOULD NOT GO AGAINST IT. I cannot will what God does not will. I can offer you my will to make yours invincible by this sharing, but I cannot oppose yours without competing with it and thereby violating God's Will for you.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia:1:1.2 The Universal Father never imposes any form of arbitrary recognition, formal worship, or slavish service upon the intelligent will creatures of the universes. The evolutionary inhabitants of the worlds of time and space must of themselves\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 in their own hearts\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 recognize, love, and voluntarily worship him. THE CREATOR REFUSES TO COERCE OR COMPEL THE SUBMISSION OF THE SPIRITUAL FREE WILLS OF HIS MATERIAL CREATURES. The affectionate dedication of the human will to the doing of the Father's will is man's choicest gift to God; in fact, such a consecration of creature will constitutes man's only possible gift of true value to the Paradise Father. In God, man lives, moves, and has his being; there is nothing which man can give to God except this choosing to abide by the Father's will, and such decisions, effected by the intelligent will creatures of the universes, constitute the reality of that true worship which is so satisfying to the love-dominated nature of the Creator Father.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 5:6.8 Having thus provided for the growth of the immortal soul and having liberated man's inner self from the fetters of absolute dependence on antecedent causation, the Father stands aside. Now, man having thus been liberated from the fetters of causation response, at least as pertains to eternal destiny, and provision having been made for the growth of the immortal self, the soul, it remains for man himself to will the creation or to inhibit the creation of this surviving and eternal self which is his for the choosing. NO OTHER BEING, FORCE, CREATOR, OR AGENCY IN ALL THE WIDE UNIVERSE OF UNIVERSES CAN INTERFERE TO ANY DEGREE WITH THE ABSOLUTE SOVEREIGNTY OF THE MORTAL FREE WILL, as it operates within the realms of choice, regarding the eternal destiny of the personality of the choosing mortal. As pertains to eternal survival, God has decreed the sovereignty of the material and mortal will, and that decree is absolute.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 --------}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Following wrong guide}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Forgive}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Condemnation}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 __________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 "All conflict is evil in that it inhibits the creative function of the inner life\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 it is a species of civil war in the personality." - UB111.4.11    }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 "Conflict and peace are opposites. Where one abides the other cannot be; where either goes the other disappears. So is the memory of God obscured in minds that have become illusion's battleground." - ACIM T23.18}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ______________________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Chapter Twenty Seven: The Body and the Dream}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 III. The Fear of Healing}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 What is the difference between pardon and forgiveness? Forgiveness destroys sin. Pardon puts it to one side and preserves the proof of its existence. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 To witness sin and yet forgive it is a paradox which reason cannot see. For it maintains what has been done to you deserves no pardon. And by giving it, you grant your brother mercy but retain the proof he is not really innocent. The sick remain accusers. They cannot forgive their brothers and themselves as well. For no one in whom true forgiveness reigns can suffer. He holds not the proof of sin before his brother's eyes. And thus he must have overlooked it and removed it from his own. Forgiveness cannot be for one and not the other. Who forgives is healed. And in his healing lies the proof that he has truly pardoned and retains no trace of condemnation that he still would hold against himself or any living thing.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 188:5.2 Divine love does not merely forgive wrongs; it absorbs and actually destroys them. The forgiveness of love utterly transcends the forgiveness of mercy. Mercy sets the guilt of evil-doing to one side; but love destroys forever the sin and all weakness resulting therefrom. Jesus brought a new method of living to Urantia. He taught us not to resist evil but to find through him a goodness which effectually destroys evil. The forgiveness of Jesus is not condonation; it is salvation from condemnation. Salvation does not slight wrongs; it makes them right. True love does not compromise nor condone hate; it destroys it. The love of Jesus is never satisfied with mere forgiveness. The Master's love implies rehabilitation, eternal survival. It is altogether proper to speak of salvation as redemption if you mean this eternal rehabilitation.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 \endash -----------}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 God the Supreme in the Urantia book is equivalent to the Sonship in the Course. These two passages say similar things about God the Supreme. The Urantia book says we will simultaneously find the Supreme (sonship). }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 117:6.21 A human ascender can find the Father; God is existential and therefore real, irrespective of the status of experience in the total universe. But no single ascender will ever find the Supreme until all ascenders have reached that maximum universe maturity which qualifies them simultaneously to participate in this discovery.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 And the Course says when the atonement has been completed all talents will be shared. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Chapter One: Introduction to Miracles}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 I. Principles of Miracles}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 88 Equality does not imply homogeneity now. When everyone recognizes that he has everything, individual contributions to the Sonship will no longer be necessary. When the Atonement has been completed, all talents will be shared by all the Sons of God. God is not partial. All His Children have His total love, and all His gifts are freely given to everyone alike. "Except ye become as little children" means that, unless you fully recognize your complete dependence on God, you cannot know the real power of the Son in his true relationship with the Father.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ______________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Levels of thought, meaning, values}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Understanding is beyond perception because it introduces meaning. It is, however, below knowledge even though it can grow towards it.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 118:5.3 Mortal consciousness proceeds from the fact, to the meaning, and then to the value. Creator consciousness proceeds from the thought-value, through the word-meaning, to the fact of action.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 102:2.5 Even the discoveries of science are not truly real in the consciousness of human experience until they are unraveled and correlated, until their relevant facts actually become meaning through encircuitment in the thought}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  streams of mind. Mortal man views even his physical environment from }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 the mind level, from the perspective of its psychological registry. It }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 is not, therefore, strange that man should place a highly unified }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 interpretation upon the universe and then seek to identify this energy unity}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  of his science with the spirit unity of his religious experience. Mind }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 is unity; mortal consciousness lives on the mind level and perceives the}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  universal realities through the eyes of the mind endowment. The mind }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 perspective will not yield the existential unity of the source of }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 reality, the First Source and Center, but it can and sometime will }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 portray to man the experiential synthesis of energy, mind, and spirit in}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  and as the Supreme Being. But mind can never succeed in this }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 unification of the diversity of reality unless such mind is firmly aware}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  of material things, intellectual meanings, and spiritual values; only }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 in the harmony of the triunity of functional reality is there unity, and}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  only in unity is there the personality satisfaction of the realization }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 of cosmic constancy and consistency.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 -}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Words are valueless}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (84.5) 7:3.5 But how much more perfect is the superb technique of the spiritual world! If anything originates in your consciousness that is fraught with supreme spiritual value, when once you give it expression, no power in the universe can prevent its flashing directly to the Absolute Spirit Personality of all creation.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (84.6) 7:3.6 Conversely, if your supplications are purely material and wholly self-centered, there exists no plan whereby such unworthy prayers can find lodgment in the spirit circuit of the Eternal Son. The content of any petition which is not \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93spirit indited\u8221\'94 can find no place in the universal spiritual circuit; such purely selfish and material requests fall dead; they do not ascend in the circuits of true spirit values. Such words are as \u8220\'93sounding brass and a tinkling cymbal.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (85.1) 7:3.7 It is the motivating thought, the spiritual content, that validates the mortal supplication. Words are valueless.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: 21. What Is the Role of Words in Healing?1 Strictly speaking, words play no part at all in healing. The motivating factor is prayer, or asking. What you ask for, you receive. But this refers to the prayer of the heart, not to the words you use in praying. Sometimes the words and the prayer are contradictory; sometimes they agree. It does not matter. God does not understand words, for they were made by separated minds to keep them in the illusion of separation. Words can be helpful, particularly for the beginner, in helping concentration and facilitating the exclusion or at least the control of extraneous thoughts. Let us not forget, however, that words are but symbols of symbols. They are thus twice removed from reality}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 -}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 " Imagine how much more you could help this tired and hurting world if you step a moment into eternity and come back to tell us about it. People are getting glimpses here and there now."}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Our Master told his apostles this:}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 . JCIM quote : "12 What is the face of Christ but his who went a moment into timelessness and brought a clear reflection of the unity he felt an instant back to bless the world?"}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 140:3.1 Then Jesus spoke, saying: \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Now that you are ambassadors of my Father\u8217\'92s kingdom, you have thereby become a class of men separate and distinct from all other men on earth. You are not now as men among men but as the enlightened citizens of another and heavenly country among the ignorant creatures of this dark world. It is not enough that you live as you were before this hour, but henceforth must you live as those who have tasted the glories of a better life and have been sent back to earth as ambassadors of the Sovereign of that new and better world.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 -------------------}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The first two quotes are from the Urantia book quoting Jesus. The}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1439.3) 130:7.5 Animals do not sense time as does man, and even to man, because of his sectional and circumscribed view, time appears as a succession of events; but as man ascends, as he progresses inward, the enlarging view of this event procession is such that it is discerned more and more in its wholeness. That which formerly appeared as a succession of events then will be viewed as a whole and perfectly related cycle; in this way will circular simultaneity increasingly displace the onetime consciousness of the linear sequence of events.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Great quote for course attitude on time and space}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1439.6) 130:7.8 The time-space concept of a mind of material origin is destined to undergo successive enlargements as the conscious and conceiving personality ascends the levels of the universes. When man attains the mind intervening between the material and the spiritual planes of existence, his ideas of time-space will be enormously expanded both as to quality of perception and quantity of experience. The enlarging cosmic conceptions of an advancing spirit personality are due to augmentations of both depth of insight and scope of consciousness. And as personality passes on, upward and inward, to the transcendental levels of Deity-likeness, the time-space concept will increasingly approximate the timeless and spaceless concepts of the Absolutes. Relatively, and in accordance with transcendental attainment, these concepts of the absolute level are to be envisioned by the children of ultimate destiny.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Philosophy dare not project its interpretations of reality in the linear fashion of logic; it must never fail to reckon with the elliptic symmetry of reality and with the essential curvature of all relation concepts}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM: We have been emphasizing perception and have said very little about cognition as yet because you are confused about the difference between them. The reason we have dealt so little with cognition is because you must get your perceptions straightened out before you can know anything. To know is to be certain. Uncertainty merely means that you do not know. Knowledge is power because it is certain, and certainty is strength. Perception is merely temporary. It is an attribute of the space-time belief and is therefore subject to fear or love. Misperceptions produce fear, and true perceptions produce love. Neither produces certainty because all perception varies. That is why it is not knowledge.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ----------------------}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Jesus earned his sovereignty. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 "I have told you before that I am in charge of the whole Atonement. This is only because I completed my part in it as a man and can now complete it through other men."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia quote: "When a Creator has seven times sojourned among his creatures, when the bestowal career is finished, then is he supremely settled in universe authority; he has become a Master Son, a sovereign and supreme ruler."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia quote: "These primary Paradise Sons are personalized as Michaels. As they go forth from Paradise to found their universes, they are known as Creator Michaels. When settled in supreme authority, they are called Master Michaels. Sometimes we refer to the sovereign of your universe of Nebadon as Christ Michael. Always and forever do they reign after the \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93order of Michael,\u8221\'94 that being the designation of the first Son of their order and nature."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  JCIM quote: "The Holy One shares my trust and always approves my Atonement decisions because my will is never out of accord with His. I have told you before that I am in charge of the whole Atonement. This is only because I completed my part in it as a man and can now complete it through other men. My chosen receiving and sending channels cannot fail because I will lend them my strength as long as theirs is wanting."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 We need to take a fresh look at the course from the perspective of the Urantia book and how the concepts in the course fit into the Urantia revelation. If the voice of the course is Jesus/Michael, our creator father brother, then the course has to fit within the conceptual framework of the Urantia book or the course is not from Jesus. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The UB says we have set sail on a sea of continuous adjustments to the ever quickening pace of cultural, scientific, and religious changes. We will need to put an enormous amount of energy into our intellectual models and make adjustments if we are to prevent overmuch conflict. To assist in this effort we are given the Urantia book by our celestial government. A book they deem an epochal revelation. It gives us an overview of Gods plan for creation, goes into great detail expanding our concepts of deity, trinity, }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 In this writers opinion, the concept that has the most power to change our world view is the concept of God the Supreme. For the first time in history we have the master plan for creation. The plan is to create the God of time and space that so perfectly reflects the eternal changeless God of infinity who lives on paradise, beyond time and space. Time and space is a creation of the Eternal Son and the Infinite Spirit. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The path to the final would have to be a radical departure from the current thinking. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 _________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 140:8.20 Jesus did not attack the teachings of the Hebrew prophets or the Greek moralists. The Master recognized the many good things which these great teachers stood for, but he had come down to earth to teach something additional, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93the voluntary conformity of man's will to God's will.\u8221\'94 Jesus did not want simply to produce a religious man, a mortal wholly occupied with religious feelings and actuated only by spiritual impulses. Could you have had but one look at him, you would have known that Jesus was a real man of great experience in the things of this world. The teachings of Jesus in this respect have been grossly perverted and much misrepresented all down through the centuries of the Christian era; you have also held perverted ideas about the Master's meekness and humility. WHAT HE AIMED AT IN HIS LIFE APPEARS TO HAVE BEEN A SUPERB SELF-RESPECT. HE ONLY ADVISED MAN TO HUMBLE HIMSELF THAT HE MIGHT BECOME TRULY EXALTED; WHAT HE REALLY AIMED AT WAS TRUE HUMILITY TOWARD GOD. He placed great value upon sincerity\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 a pure heart. Fidelity was a cardinal virtue in his estimate of character, while courage was the very heart of his teachings. \u8220\'93Fear not\u8221\'94 was his watchword, and patient endurance his ideal of strength of character. The teachings of Jesus constitute a religion of valor, courage, and heroism. And this is just why he chose as his personal representatives twelve commonplace men, the majority of whom were rugged, virile, and manly fishermen.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 _________________________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Spirit gravity}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 spiritual-gravity pull of the Eternal Son constitutes the inherent secret of the Paradise ascension of surviving human souls. All genuine spirit values and all bona fide spiritualized individuals are held within the unfailing grasp of the spiritual gravity of the Eternal Son. The mortal mind, for example, initiates its career as a material mechanism and is eventually mustered into the Corps of the Finality as a well-nigh perfected spirit existence, becoming progressively less subject to material gravity and correspondingly more responsive to the inward pulling urge of spirit gravity during this entire experience. The spirit-gravity circuit literally pulls the soul of man Paradiseward.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Plan of rehabilitation }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The Paradise Sons stand pledged and ready to function as retrievers, to go into the very realms of rebellion and there restore the spiritual status of the spheres. And such a heroic service a co-ordinate Creator Son did perform on Urantia in connection with his experiential bestowal career of sovereignty acquirement.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (86.1) 7:4.7 The Eternal Son is the personal trustee, the divine custodian, of the Father\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s universal plan of creature ascension. Having promulgated the universal mandate, \u8220\'93Be you perfect, even as I am perfect,\u8221\'94 the Father intrusted the execution of this tremendous undertaking to the Eternal Son; and the Eternal Son shares the fostering of this supernal enterprise with his divine co-ordinate, the Infinite Spirit. Thus do the Deities effectively co-operate in the work of creation, control, evolution, revelation, and ministration \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  and if required, in restoration and rehabilitation.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Compare the concept of death versus fusion. How many books actually advocate another possibility besides death? The next step in the evolutionary process. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 "Thinking and Destiny" by Harold W. Percival}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Ezekiel and Enoch}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Annalee Skarin}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ---------------}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 A Urantia quote that sounds like Jesus in the Course}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Let the childlike and darkened minds of my people serve their God as Moses directed; it is better that they do, but let us who have seen the light of life no longer approach our Father by the darkness of death. Let us be free in the knowledge of the truth of our Father\u8217\'92s eternal love.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 _____}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The course talks as if we are all one, and together we made the choice to rebel. It also emphasizes that we are all one son (sonship, supreme). There must be a connection between the idea that we all collectively participated in the decision to rebel. Why else would Caligastia's fate be links with every single human being on the planet. There must be something the revelators are not telling us about the link we share with Caligastia. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ______}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 This sounds like the creator describing the early days of creation when the creators were making decisions on what types of limits to build into the time-space creation. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Jesus says time and space did not exist before the separation. It sounds like he may be describing the thought process back in the beginning of time. The Urantia book does say the creators built limitations into time and space to limit our free will choices. So maybe Jesus as creator is describing the early days when the creators were devising the limitations necessary to deal with the new realities of extending creation from the eternal to the temporal. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 quote: The Atonement principle was in effect long before the Atonement itself began. The principle was love, and the Atonement itself was an act of love. Acts were not necessary before the separation because the time-space belief did not exist. It was only after the separation that the defense of Atonement and the necessary conditions for its fulfillment were planned.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 and}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The Atonement was built into the space-time belief in order to set a limit on the need for the belief and ultimately to make learning complete. The Atonement is the final lesson.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 and}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The acceptance of the Atonement by everyone is only a matter of time. In fact, both time and matter were created for this purpose. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ----}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Spirit of truth}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The reason why you need my help...}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Ch 4 sec vlll}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 -}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 _______}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 I was thinking about the lesson today, my mind holds only what I think was gone and I thought of the Maras your mind which is made up of only other thing with the ternal Valley what meeting me at Chester create together. Sometimes these statements kind of vague}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 47:4.5 Your Adjuster memory remains fully intact as you ascend the morontia life. Those mental associations that were purely animalistic and wholly material naturally perished with the physical brain, but everything in your mental life which was worth while, and which had survival value, was counterparted by the Adjuster and is retained as a part of personal memory all the way through the ascendant career. You will be conscious of all your worth-while experiences as you advance from one mansion world to another and from one section of the universe to another\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 even to Paradise.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 _________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Interesting that the creator son is dependent on the infinite spirit. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 21:2.2 (235.5) When a Creator Son departs from Paradise to embark upon the adventure of universe making, to become the head \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  virtually the God \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  of the local universe of his own organization, then, for the first time, he finds himself in intimate contact with, and in many respects dependent upon, the Third Source and Center. The Infinite Spirit, though abiding with the Father and the Son at the center of all things, is destined to function as the actual and effective helper of each Creator Son. Therefore is each Creator Son accompanied by a Creative Daughter of the Infinite Spirit, that being who is destined to become the Divine Minister, the Mother Spirit of the new local universe.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 -----}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 If you believe the course is the voice of Jesus, you can learn how the Holy Spirit operates. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 --------}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The goal of meditation is to experience eternity and bring a clear reflection of unity back to bless the world. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 12 What is the face of Christ but his who went a moment into timelessness and brought a clear reflection of the unity he felt an instant back to bless the world? How could you finally attain to it forever while a part of you remains outside, unknowing, unawakened, and in need of you as witness to the truth?}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 -----------}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 2:1.5 No thing is new to God, and no cosmic event ever comes as a surprise; he inhabits the circle of eternity. He is without beginning or end of days. To God there is no past, present, or future; all time is present at any given moment. He is the great and only I AM.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Forgiveness}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 156:5.8 Do not become discouraged by the discovery that you }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 are human. Human nature may tend toward evil, but it is not inherently }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 sinful. Be not downcast by your failure wholly to forget some of your }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 regrettable experiences. The mistakes which you fail to forget in time will be forgotten in eternity. Lighten your burdens of soul by speedily acquiring a long-distance view of your destiny, a universe expansion of your career.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 __________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 160:1.14   ... God as the eternal goal of infinite attainment. And thus to transfer one's goal from time to eternity,}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 __________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 174:1.4 The child, being immature and lacking in the fuller understanding of the depth of the child-father relationship, must frequently feel a sense of guilty separation from a father's full approval, but the true father is never conscious of any such separation. Sin is an experience of creature consciousness it is not a part of God's consciousness.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 __________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 3:2.10}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  Thus it is that your detached, sectional, finite, gross, and highly }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 materialistic viewpoint and the limitations inherent in the nature of }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 your being constitute such a handicap that you are unable}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  to see, comprehend, or know the wisdom and kindness of many of the }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 divine acts which to you seem fraught with such crushing cruelty, and }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 which seem to be characterized by such utter indifference to the comfort}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  and welfare, to the planetary happiness and personal prosperity, of }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 your fellow creatures. It is because of the limits of human vision, it }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 is because of your circumscribed understanding and finite comprehension,}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  that you misunderstand the motives, and pervert the purposes, of God. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 But many things occur on the evolutionary worlds which are not the }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 personal doings of the Universal Father.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 __________________________}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Parallel's between the Revelations (emphasis is mine)        ACIM T5.3 God Himself keeps this will alive by transmitting it from His Mind to yours as long as there is time. It is PARTLY HIS AND PARTLY YOURS. The miracle itself is just this fusion or union of will between Father and Son.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 UB110:2.5.You as a personal creature have mind and will. The Adjuster as a prepersonal creature has premind and prewill. If you so fully conform to the Adjuster's mind that you see eye to eye, then your minds become one, and you receive the reinforcement of the Adjuster's mind. Subsequently, if your will orders and enforces the execution of the decisions of this new or combined mind, the Adjuster's PREPERSONAL WILL attains to personality expression through YOUR DECISIONS, and as far as that particular project is concerned, you and the Adjuster are one. Your mind has attained to divinity attunement, and the Adjuster's will has achieved personality expression.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Fear}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Fear}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93The kingdom of God is not meat and drink but righteousness, peace, and joy in the Holy Spirit.\u8221\'94 And throughout every trial and in the presence of every hardship, spirit-born souls are sustained by that hope which transcends all fear because the love of God is shed abroad in all hearts by the presence of the divine Spirit.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The higher animals have fears but no illusions, hence no religion. Man creates his primitive religions out of his fears and by means of his illusions.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 man mind, by the powerful and awesome force of false fear, for the bestowal of a bona fide spiritual force of supernatural origin, the Thought Adjuster. And the divine Adjusters have ever since labored to transmute God-fear into God-love. Evolution may be slow, but it is unerringly effective.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 90:0.3 Evolutionary religion is born of a simple and all-powerful fear, the fear which surges through the human mind when confronted with the unknown, the inexplicable, and the incomprehensible. Religion eventually achieves the profoundly simple realization of an all-powerful love, the love which sweeps irresistibly through the human soul when awakened to the conception of the limitless affection of the Universal Father for the sons of the universe}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 92:7.11 Religious meanings progress in self-consciousness when the child transfers his ideas of omnipotence from his parents to God. And the entire religious experience of such a child is largely dependent on whether fear or love has dominated the parent-child relationship. Slaves have always experienced great difficulty in transferring their master-fear into concepts of God-love. Civilization, science, and advanced religions must deliver mankind from those fears born of the dread of natural phenomena. And so should greater enlightenment deliver educated mortals from all dependence on intermediaries in communion with Deity.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 102:6.1 The philosophic elimination of religious fear and the steady progress of science add greatly to the mortality of false gods; and even though these casualties of man-made deities may momentarily befog the spiritual vision, they eventually destroy that ignorance and superstition which so long obscured the living God of eternal love. The relation between the creature and the Creator is a living experience, a dynamic religious faith, which is not subject to precise definition. To isolate part of life and call it religion is to disintegrate life and to distort religion. And this is just why the God of worship claims all allegiance or none.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 But it is true that many who are inwardly sure about God fear to assert such feelings of certainty because of the multiplicity and cleverness of those who assemble objections and magnify difficulties about believing in God. It requires no great depth of intellect to pick flaws, ask questions, or raise objections. But it does require brilliance of mind to answer these questions and solve these difficulties; faith certainty is the greatest technique for dealing with all such superficial contentions.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 108:5.8 The Thought Adjusters would like to change your feelings of fear to convictions of love and confidence; but they cannot mechanically and arbitrarily do such things; that is your task. In executing those decisions which deliver you from the fetters of fear, you literally supply the psychic fulcrum on which the Adjuster may subsequently apply a spiritual lever of uplifting and advancing illumination.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Co-operation with the Thought Adjuster does not entail self-torture, mock piety, or hypocritical and ostentatious self-abasement; the ideal life is one of loving service rather than an existence of fearful apprehension. *}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Set your mind at work to solve its problems; teach your intellect to work for you; refuse longer to be dominated by fear like an unthinking animal. Your mind should be your courageous ally in the solution of your life problems rather than your being, as you have been, its abject fear-slave and the bond servant of depression and defeat. But most valuable of all, your potential of real achievement is the spirit which lives within you, and which will stimulate and inspire your mind to control itself and activate the body if you will release it from the fetters of fear and thus enable your spiritual nature to begin your deliverance from the evils of inaction by the power-presence of living faith. And then, forthwith, will this faith vanquish fear of men by the compelling presence of that new and all-dominating love of your fellows which will so soon fill your soul to overflowing because of the consciousness which has been born in your heart that you are a child of God. *}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 You know, Ganid, most human beings are like the lost child. They spend much of their time crying in fear and suffering in sorrow when, in very truth, they are but a short distance from safety and security, even as this child was only a little way from home. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth." Genuine meekness has no relation to fear. It is rather an attitude of man co-operating with God\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  "Your will be done." It embraces patience and forbearance and is motivated by an unshakable faith in a lawful and friendly universe. It masters all temptations to rebel against the divine leading. Jesus was the ideal meek man of Urantia, and he inherited a vast universe.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Fear is man\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s chief enslaver and pride his great weakness; will you betray yourself into bondage to both of these destroyers of joy and liberty?\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Hate is the shadow of fear; revenge the mask of cowardice.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  Fasting may be an appropriate part of the law of Moses, but in the coming kingdom the sons of God shall experience freedom from fear and joy in the divine spirit.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94 And when they heard these words, the disciples of John were comforted while the Pharisees themselves were the more confounded.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 148:2.2 Many of the cures effected by Jesus in connection with his ministry in behalf of Elman\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s patients did, indeed, appear to resemble the working of miracles, but we were instructed that they were only just such transformations of mind and spirit as may occur in the experience of expectant and faith-dominated persons who are under the immediate and inspirational influence of a strong, positive, and beneficent personality whose ministry banishes fear and destroys anxiety.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 All too many of man\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s troubles take origin in the fear soil of his own natural heart. `The wicked flee when no man pursues.\u8217\'92 `The wicked are like the troubled sea, for it cannot rest, but its waters cast up mire and dirt; there is no peace, says God, for the wicked.\u8217\'92}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 149:6.5 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Your forebears feared God because he was mighty and mysterious. You shall adore him because he is magnificent in love, plenteous in mercy, and glorious in truth. The power of God engenders fear in the heart of man, but the nobility and righteousness of his personality beget reverence, love, and willing worship. A dutiful and affectionate son does not fear or dread even a mighty and noble father. I have come into the world to put love in the place of fear, joy in the place of sorrow, confidence in the place of dread, loving service and appreciative worship in the place of slavish bondage and meaningless ceremonies. But it is still true of those who sit in darkness that `the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom.\u8217\'92 But when the light has more fully come, the sons of God are led to praise the Infinite for what he is rather than to fear him for what he does.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 It is not the fear of a dead religion that will save you but rather your faith in a living experience in the spiritual realities of the kingdom. Do not allow yourselves to become blinded by prejudice and paralyzed by fear. Neither permit reverence for the traditions so to pervert your understanding that your eyes see not and your ears hear not. It is not the purpose of true religion merely to bring peace but rather to insure progress. And there can be no peace in the heart or progress in the mind unless you fall wholeheartedly in love with truth, the ideals of eternal realities. The issues of life and death are being set before you\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 the sinful pleasures of time against the righteous realities of eternity. Even now you should begin to find deliverance from the bondage of fear and doubt as you enter upon the living of the new life of faith and hope. And when the feelings of service for your fellow men arise within your soul, do not stifle them; when the emotions of love for your neighbor well up within your heart, give expression to such urges of affection in intelligent ministry to the real needs of your fellows.\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 160:1.7 Successful living is nothing more or less than the art of the mastery of dependable techniques for solving common problems. The first step in the solution of any problem is to locate the difficulty, to isolate the problem, and frankly to recognize its nature and gravity. The great mistake is that, when life problems excite our profound fears, we refuse to recognize them. Likewise, when the acknowledgment of our difficulties entails the reduction of our long-cherished conceit, the admission of envy, or the abandonment of deep-seated prejudices, the average person prefers to cling to the old illusions of safety and to the long-cherished false feelings of security. Only a brave person is willing honestly to admit, and fearlessly to face, what a sincere and logical mind discovers.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The wise and effective solution of any problem demands that the mind shall be free from bias, passion, and all other purely personal prejudices which might interfere with the disinterested survey of the actual factors that go to make up the problem presenting itself for solution. The solution of life problems requires courage and sincerity. Only honest and brave individuals are able to follow valiantly through the perplexing and confusing maze of living to where the logic of a fearless mind may lead. And this emancipation of the mind and soul can never be effected without the driving power of an intelligent enthusiasm which borders on religious zeal. It requires the lure of a great ideal to drive man on in the pursuit of a goal which is beset with difficult material problems and manifold intellectual hazards.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 167:3.1 Abner had arranged for the Master to teach in the synagogue on this Sabbath day, the first time Jesus had appeared in a synagogue since they had all been closed to his teachings by order of the Sanhedrin. At the conclusion of the service Jesus looked down before him upon an elderly woman who wore a downcast expression, and who was much bent in form. This woman had long been fear-ridden, and all joy had passed out of her life. As Jesus stepped down from the pulpit, he went over to her and, touching her bowed-over form on the shoulder, said: \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Woman, if you would only believe, you could be wholly loosed from your spirit of infirmity.\u8221\'94 And this woman, who had been bowed down and bound up by the depressions of fear for more than eighteen years, believed the words of the Master and by faith straightened up immediately. When this woman saw that she had been made straight, she lifted up her voice and glorified God.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 167:3.5 Jesus frequently delivered such victims of from their spirit of infirmity, from their depression of mind, and from their bondage of fear. But the people thought that all such afflictions were either physical disorders or possession of evil spirits.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The Master made it clear that the kingdom of heaven must begin with, and be centered in, the dual concept of the truth of the fatherhood of God and the correlated fact of the brotherhood of man. The acceptance of such a teaching, Jesus declared, would liberate man from the agelong bondage of animal fear and at the same time enrich human living with the following endowments of the new life of spiritual liberty:}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 184:4.6 These are the moments of the Master\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s greatest victories in all his long and eventful career as maker, upholder, and savior of a vast and far-flung universe. Having lived to the full a life of revealing God to man, Jesus is now engaged in making a new and unprecedented revelation of man to God. Jesus is now revealing to the worlds the final triumph over all fears of creature personality isolation. The Son of Man has finally achieved the realization of identity as the Son of God. Jesus does not hesitate to assert that he and the Father are one; and on the basis of the fact and truth of that supreme and supernal experience, he admonishes every kingdom believer to become one with him even as he and his Father are one. The living experience in the religion of Jesus thus becomes the sure and certain technique whereby the spiritually isolated and cosmically lonely mortals of earth are enabled to escape personality isolation, with all its consequences of fear and associated feelings of helplessness. In the fraternal realities of the kingdom of heaven the faith sons of God find final deliverance from the isolation of the self, both personal and planetary. The God-knowing believer increasingly experiences the ecstasy and grandeur of spiritual socialization on a universe scale\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 citizenship on high in association with the eternal realization of the divine destiny of perfection attainment.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  Do you not recall how this Son of Man proclaimed the salvation of God for all men, ministering to the sick and afflicted and setting free those who were bound by fear and enslaved by evil? }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 He was not disturbed seriously by fears, doubts, and skepticism. Unbelief did not inhibit the free and original expression of his life. He combined the stalwart and intelligent courage of a full-grown man with the sincere and trusting optimism of a believing child. His faith grew to such heights of trust that it was devoid of fear.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1611.4) 143:3.6 The third day when they started down the mountain and back to their camp, a great change had come over them. They had made the important discovery that many human perplexities are in reality nonexistent, that many pressing troubles are the creations of exaggerated fear and the offspring of augmented apprehension. They had learned that all such perplexities are best handled by being forsaken; by going off they had left such problems to solve themselves.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Sonship in the course sounds like the supreme in the UB}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Miracles make minds one in God. They depend on cooperation because the Sonship is the sum of all the Souls God created.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Every loving thought held in any part of the Sonship belongs to every part.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 You can appreciate the Sonship only as one.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Every loving thought held in any part of the Sonship belongs to every part. It is shared because it is loving.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 If all the Souls God created are His Sons, then every Soul must be an integral part of the whole Sonship.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 102 The Sonship in its oneness does transcend the sum of its parts. However, this is obscured as long as any of its parts are missing. That is why the conflict cannot ultimately be resolved until all the parts of the Sonship have returned. Only then can the meaning of wholeness, in the true sense, be fully understood.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 There is a corollary to the quote above in the urantia book. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Never forget that the Sonship is your salvation, for the Sonship is your Soul. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Your brother is the mirror in which you will see the image of yourself as long as perception lasts. And perception will last until the Sonship knows itself as whole.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The crucifixion cannot be shared, because it is the symbol of projection, but the resurrection is the symbol of sharing, because the reawakening of every Son of God is necessary to enable the Sonship to know its wholeness. Only this is knowledge.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Because the Sonship must create as one, you remember creation whenever you recognize part of creation. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The term "holy" can be used here because as you learn how much you are indebted to the whole Sonship, which includes me, you come as close to knowledge as perception ever can. The gap is then so small that knowledge can easily flow across it and obliterate it forever}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 body becomes for you a means which you give to the Holy Spirit to use on behalf of union of the Sonship}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 We are the joint will of the Sonship, whose wholeness is for all.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia quotes}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 God the Father can be found by any individual who has attained the divine level of Godlikeness, but God the Supreme will never be personally discovered by any one creature until that far-distant time when, through the universal attainment of perfection, all creatures will simultaneously find him.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  The Supreme is your universe home, and when you find him, it will   be like returning home}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 when an ascending mortal personality finally attunes to the divine leading of the indwelling Adjuster, then has the actuality of the Supreme become real by one more degree in the universes; then has the divinity of Supremacy advanced one more step toward cosmic realization.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 and after total universe development makes possible their attainment of God the Supreme as an actual divinity presence, then, inherent in the fact of such contact, is contact with total experience.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 We equally hold that this kind of growth is peculiar to the age of the growth of the Supreme, and that it will terminate with the completion of the growth of the Supreme.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 the age which will follow the completion of the growth of the Supreme.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1280.6) 117:2.6 There will come an end sometime to the growth of the Supreme; his status will achieve completion (in the energy-spirit sense). This termination of the evolution of the Supreme will also witness the ending of creature evolution as a part of Supremacy}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The far-flung diversification of eternal energy, divine spirit, and universal mind attains finite culmination in the evolution of the Supreme, who is the sum total of all finite growth,.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1281.6) 117:3.4 Your Creator Son can actually be such a living channel from humanity to divinity since he has personally experienced the fullness of the traversal of this universe path of progression, from the true humanity of Joshua ben Joseph, the Son of Man, to the Paradise divinity of Michael of Nebadon, the Son of the infinite God. Similarly can the Supreme Being function as the universe approach to the transcendence of finite limitations, for he is the actual embodiment and personal epitome of all creature evolution, progression, and spiritualization}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22  until such time as the completed evolution of the Supreme qualifies him to assume that sovereignty.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 the Supreme culminates the total finite and establishes its relationship with the destiny of the absonite.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 When a human being chooses eternal survival, he is cocreating destiny; }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Does this say the supreme is the sum of its parts?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 8:5.4 There are many spiritual influences, and they are all as one. Even the work of the Thought Adjusters, though independent of all other influences, unvaryingly coincides with the spirit ministry of the combined influences of the Infinite Spirit and a local universe Mother Spirit. As these spiritual presences operate in the lives of Urantians, they cannot be segregated. In your minds and upon your souls they function as one spirit, notwithstanding their diverse origins. And as this united spiritual ministration is experienced, it becomes to you the influence of the Supreme, \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93who is ever able to keep you from failing and to present you blameless before your Father on high.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The Supreme Being, now actualizing in the evolutionary universes, is the Deity correlator and synthesizer of time-space divinity, of triune Paradise Deity in experiential association with the Supreme Creators of time and space. }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 When finally actualized, this evolutionary Deity will constitute the eternal fusion of the finite and the infinite \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  the everlasting and indissoluble union of experiential power and spirit personality.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Miracle Impulse}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93If one is disposed to recognize a theoretical subconscious mind as a practical working hypothesis in the otherwise unified intellectual life, then, to be consistent, one should postulate a similar and corresponding realm of ascending intellectual activity as the superconscious level, the zone of immediate contact with the indwelling spirit entity, the Thought Adjuster. The great danger in all these psychic speculations is that visions and other so\endash called mystic experiences, along with extraordinary dreams, may be regarded as divine communications to the human mind. In times past, divine beings have revealed themselves to certain God\endash knowing persons, not because of their mystic trances or morbid visions, but in spite of all these phenomena." }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 This matches up with the miracle Jesus detected after it happened. He said "I perceive energy has gone from me"}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 44. 71 Miracles arise from a miraculous state of mind. By being one, this state of mind goes out to anyone, even without the awareness of the miracle worker himself. The impersonal nature of miracles is because the Atonement itself is one, uniting all creations with their Creator.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Jesus was unaware of the miracle}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1698.2) 152:0.2 As Jesus went along with Jairus, the large crowd which had heard the father\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s request followed on to see what would happen. Shortly before they reached the ruler\u8217\'92s house, as they hastened through a narrow street and as the throng jostled him, Jesus suddenly stopped, exclaiming, \u8220\'93Someone touched me.\u8221\'94 And when those who were near him denied that they had touched him, Peter spoke up: \u8220\'93Master, you can see that this crowd presses you, threatening to crush us, and yet you say \u8216\'91someone has touched me.\u8217\'92 What do you mean?\u8221\'94 Then Jesus said: \u8220\'93I asked who touched me, for I perceived that living energy had gone forth from me.\u8221\'94 As Jesus looked about him, his eyes fell upon a near-by woman, who, coming forward, knelt at his feet and said: \u8220\'93For years I have been afflicted with a scourging hemorrhage. I have suffered many things from many physicians; I have spent all my substance, but none could cure me. Then I heard of you, and I thought if I may but touch the hem of his garment, I shall certainly be made whole. And so I pressed forward with the crowd as it moved along until, standing near you, Master, I touched the border of your garment, and I was made whole; I know that I have been healed of my affliction.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1698.3) 152:0.3 When Jesus heard this, he took the woman by the hand and, lifting her up, said: \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Daughter, your faith has made you whole; go in peace.\u8221\'94 It was her faith and not her touch that made her whole. And this case is a good illustration of many apparently miraculous cures which attended upon Jesus\u8217\'92 earth career, but which he in no sense consciously willed. The passing of time demonstrated that this woman was really cured of her malady. Her faith was of the sort that laid direct hold upon the creative power resident in the Master\u8217\'92s person. With the faith she had, it was only necessary to approach the Master\u8217\'92s person. It was not at all necessary to touch his garment; that was merely the superstitious part of her belief. Jesus called this woman, Veronica of Caesarea-Philippi, into his presence to correct two errors which might have lingered in her mind, or which might have persisted in the minds of those who witnessed this healing: He did not want Veronica to go away thinking that her fear in attempting to steal her cure had been honored, or that her superstition in associating the touch of his garment with her healing had been effective. He desired all to know that it was her pure and living faith that had wrought the cure.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM quote:  "All magic is a form of reconciling the irreconcilable. All religion is the recognition that the irreconcilable cannot be reconciled. Sickness and perfection are irreconcilable. If God created you perfect, you are perfect. If you believe you can be sick, you have placed other gods before Him. God is not at war with the god of sickness you made, but you are. He is the symbol of willing against God, and you are afraid of him because he cannot be reconciled with God's Will. If you attack him, you will make him real to you. But if you refuse to worship him in whatever form he may appear to you and wherever you think you see him, he will disappear into the nothingness out of which he was made."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM quote:  "We said before that  illness is a form of magic. It might be better to say that it is a  form of magical solution. The ego believes that by punishing   itself it will mitigate the punishment of God. Yet even in  this it is arrogant. It attributes to God a punishing intent, and  then takes over this intent as its own prerogative. It tries  to usurp all the functions of God as it perceives them because  it recognizes that only total allegiance can be trusted.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Paper 102 paradox everlastingly stand in contrast to.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1121.3) 102:3.1 Intellectual deficiency or educational poverty unavoidably handicaps higher religious attainment because such an impoverished environment of the spiritual nature robs religion of its chief channel of philosophic contact with the world of scientific knowledge. The intellectual factors of religion are important, but their overdevelopment is likewise sometimes very handicapping and embarrassing. Religion must continually labor under a paradoxical necessity: the necessity of making effective use of thought while at the same time discounting the spiritual serviceableness of all thinking.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1121.4) 102:3.2 Religious speculation is inevitable but always detrimental; speculation invariably falsifies its object. Speculation tends to translate religion into something material or humanistic, and thus, while directly interfering with the clarity of logical thought, it indirectly causes religion to appear as a function of the temporal world, the very world with which it should everlastingly stand in contrast. Therefore will religion always be characterized by paradoxes, the paradoxes resulting from the absence of the experiential connection between the material and the spiritual levels of the universe \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  morontia mota, the superphilosophic sensitivity for truth discernment and unity perception.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1116.1) 101:9.9 Faith becomes the connection between moral consciousness and the spiritual concept of enduring reality. Religion becomes the avenue of man\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s escape from the material limitations of the temporal and natural world to the supernal realities of the eternal and spiritual world by and through the technique of salvation, the progressive morontia transformation.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 It is the presence of another type of mind that constitutes real religious experience?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The human mind does not create real values; human experience does not yield universe insight. Concerning insight, the recognition of moral values and the discernment of spiritual meanings, all that the human mind can do is to discover, recognize, interpret, and choose.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 And as personality passes on, upward and inward, to the transcendental levels of Deity-likeness, the time-space concept will increasingly approximate the timeless and spaceless concepts of the Absolutes.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 But much of your past life and its memories, having neither spiritual meaning nor morontia value, will perish with the material brain; much of material experience will pass away as onetime scaffolding which, having bridged you over to the morontia level, no longer serves a purpose in the universe.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 No matter how illusory and erroneous one\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s theology, one\u8217\'92s religion may be wholly genuine and everlastingly true.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The eternal real is the good of the universe and not the time illusions of space evil. In the spiritual experience of all personalities, always is it true that the real is the good and the good is the real.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 They even warn us about the hazards of transitioning between the two realities.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Forewarn all believers regarding the fringe of conflict which must be traversed by all who pass from the life as it is lived in the flesh to the higher life as it is lived in the spirit. To those who live quite wholly within either realm, there is little conflict or confusion, but all are doomed to experience more or less uncertainty during the times of transition between the two levels of living.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (1116.1) 101:9.9 Faith becomes the connection between moral consciousness and the spiritual concept of enduring reality. Religion becomes the avenue of man\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s escape from the material limitations of the temporal and natural world to the supernal  realities of the eternal and spiritual world by and through the technique of salvation, the progressive morontia transformation.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 85 All magic is a form of reconciling the irreconcilable. All religion is the recognition that the irreconcilable cannot be reconciled. Sickness and perfection are irreconcilable. If God created you perfect, you are perfect. If you believe you can be sick, you have placed other gods before Him. God is not at war with the god of sickness you made, but you are. He is the symbol of willing against God, and you are afraid of him because he cannot be reconciled with God's Will. If you attack him, you will make him real to you. But if you refuse to worship him in whatever form he may appear to you and wherever you think you see him, he will disappear into the nothingness out of which he was made.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Universe is a creation of the mind}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 18 - (42:11.1) In the evaluation and recognition of mind it should be remembered that the universe is neither mechanical nor magical; it is a creation of mind and a mechanism of law. But while in practical application the laws of nature operate in what seems to be the dual realms of the physical and the spiritual, in reality they are one. The First Source and Center is the primal cause of all materialization and at the same time the first and final Father of all spirits. The Paradise Father appears personally in the extra-Havona universes only as pure energy and pure spirit\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 as the Thought Adjusters and other similar fragmentations.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Here is an example of a holy encounter in the Urantia book. Jesus met a young guy in the woods isolated and downcast. Jesus was able to give him words of encouragement that changed his life. This is the kind of holy encounter the Course is asking us to do with guidance from the Holy Spirit. This is why I see such benefit from reading the two. Jesus is giving us a way to peace in the Course and gave us his own story in the UB of how he did it. Amazing. It\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s a bit long but a great example of a holy encounter.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 CIM 8.19 When you meet anyone, remember it is a holy encounter. As you see him, you will see yourself. As you treat him, you will treat yourself. As you think of him, you will think of yourself. Never forget this, for in him you will find yourself or lose sight of yourself. Whenever two Sons of God meet, they are given another chance at salvation. Do not leave anyone without giving salvation to him and receiving it yourself, for I am always there with you in remembrance of you.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 6. The Young Man Who Was Afraid}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 UB 130:6.1.While they were up in the mountains, Jesus had a long talk with a young man who was fearful and downcast. Failing to derive comfort and courage from association with his fellows, this youth had sought the solitude of the hills; he had grown up with a feeling of helplessness and inferiority. These natural tendencies had been augmented by numerous difficult circumstances which the lad had encountered as he grew up, notably, the loss of his father when he was twelve years of age. As they met, Jesus said: "Greetings, my friend! why so downcast on such a beautiful day? If something has happened to distress you, perhaps I can in some manner assist you. At any rate it affords me real pleasure to proffer my services."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 130:6.2.The young man was disinclined to talk, and so Jesus made a second approach to his soul, saying: "I understand you come up in these hills to get away from folks; so, of course, you do not want to talk with me, but I would like to know whether you are familiar with these hills; do you know the direction of the trails? and, perchance, could you inform me as to the best route to Phenix?" Now this youth was very familiar with these mountains, and he really became much interested in telling Jesus the way to Phenix, so much so that he marked out all the trails on the ground and fully explained every detail. But he was startled and made curious when Jesus, after saying good-bye and making as if he were taking leave, suddenly turned to him, saying: "I well know you wish to be left alone with your disconsolation; but it would be neither kind nor fair for me to receive such generous help from you as to how best to find my way to Phenix and then unthinkingly to go away from you without making the least effort to answer your appealing request for help and guidance regarding the best route to the goal of destiny which you seek in your heart while you tarry here on the mountainside. As you so well know the trails to Phenix, having traversed them many times, so do I well know the way to the city of your disappointed hopes and thwarted ambitions. And since you have asked me for help, I will not disappoint you." The youth was almost overcome, but he managed to stammer out, "But\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 I did not ask you for anything\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 " And Jesus, laying a gentle hand on his shoulder, said: "No, son, not with words but with longing looks did you appeal to my heart. My boy, to one who loves his fellows there is an eloquent appeal for help in your countenance of discouragement and despair. Sit down with me while I tell you of the service trails and happiness highways which lead from the sorrows of self to the joys of loving activities in the brotherhood of men and in the service of the God of heaven."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 130:6.3.By this time the young man very much desired to talk with Jesus, and he knelt at his feet imploring Jesus to help him, to show him the way of escape from his world of personal sorrow and defeat. Said Jesus: "My friend, arise! Stand up like a man! You may be surrounded with small enemies and be retarded by many obstacles, but the big things and the real things of this world and the universe are on your side. The sun rises every morning to salute you just as it does the most powerful and prosperous man on earth. Look\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 you have a strong body and powerful muscles\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 your physical equipment is better than the average. Of course, it is just about useless while you sit out here on the mountainside and grieve over your misfortunes, real and fancied. But you could do great things with your body if you would hasten off to where great things are waiting to be done. You are trying to run away from your unhappy self, but it cannot be done. You and your problems of living are real; you cannot escape them as long as you live. But look again, your mind is clear and capable. Your strong body has an intelligent mind to direct it. Set your mind at work to solve its problems; teach your intellect to work for you; refuse longer to be dominated by fear like an unthinking animal. Your mind should be your courageous ally in the solution of your life problems rather than your being, as you have been, its abject fear-slave and the bond servant of depression and defeat. But most valuable of all, your potential of real achievement is the spirit which lives within you, and which will stimulate and inspire your mind to control itself and activate the body if you will release it from the fetters of fear and thus enable your spiritual nature to begin your deliverance from the evils of inaction by the power-presence of living faith. And then, forthwith, will this faith vanquish fear of men by the compelling presence of that new and all-dominating love of your fellows which will so soon fill your soul to overflowing because of the consciousness which has been born in your heart that you are a child of God.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 130:6.4."This day, my son, you are to be reborn, re-established as a man of faith, courage, and devoted service to man, for God's sake. And when you become so readjusted to life within yourself, you become likewise readjusted to the universe; you have been born again\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 born of the spirit\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 and henceforth will your whole life become one of victorious accomplishment. Trouble will invigorate you; disappointment will spur you on; difficulties will challenge you; and obstacles will stimulate you. Arise, young man! Say farewell to the life of cringing fear and fleeing cowardice. Hasten back to duty and live your life in the flesh as a son of God, a mortal dedicated to the ennobling service of man on earth and destined to the superb and eternal service of God in eternity."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 130:6.5.And this youth, Fortune, subsequently became the leader of the Christians in Crete and the close associate of Titus in his labors for the uplift of the Cretan believers.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Personality does survive}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The personality values of such a nonsurvivor persist as a factor in the personality of the actualizing Supreme Being. Such persisting qualities of personality are deprived of identity but not of experiential values accumulated during the mortal life in the flesh.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The quote below is interesting, it says \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Sin has entered\u8221\'94 as though it was not present before the rebellion. }
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs22 UB: 1 - (53:8.4) The Son of Man was confident of success, and he knew that his triumph on your world would forever settle the status of his agelong enemies, not only in Satania but also in the other two systems WHERE SIN HAD ENTERED.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Me: The idea that sin wasn\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t present is all through the CIM. Again the eternal perspective sees things differently from us. Sin had not entered the mind of a ruling Spirit being very often in our universe. }
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sl259\slmult1\ltrch\loch \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 I believe the Course in Miracles is a course in Adjuster fusion. It is given through auto revelation as opposed to epical revelation as the UB was. Studying the Course in Miracles has helped me to see the eternal perspective in the Urantia book more clearly. The Urantia book points out the paradox of trying to reconcile the temporal with the eternal. The two are opposing thought systems. In order to transcend this reality we need to flip our point of view from the temporal to the eternal. Both the Urantia book and Course in Miracles point out the conflict that must be traversed when transitioning from the temporal to the eternal. It will be an abstract journey with religious experiences that cannot be put into words. The Course in Miracles is very abstract yet on closer examination you will find identical concepts described with slightly different terminology. That is what I find most amazing. For instance, both the Urantia book and Course in Miracles say a miracle shortens time. They both say the goal of time is to unite the Sonship (God the Supreme). Both acknowledge Lucifer\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s rebellion and Adamic default in slightly different ways. Both say there are levels of learning that must be traversed (Circle attainment). The eternal viewpoint really pops out of the Urantia book when you study the Course in Miracles as a course in Adjuster fusion. The confusion comes in when you talk to a Course in Miracles student who has never studied the Urantia book and has no idea what fusion is. I suggest looking at the Course as meant to compliment the Urantia book. I see it as Jesus relating what he learned during his life in the flesh. He is teaching us the path he made to the final father as he learned it. The Course in Miracles has also given me an deeper understanding of how the Holy Spirit works. The Course in Miracles teaches that forgiveness is critical to accessing the higher mind functions of the superconscious. Yes the Course is very abstract. But consider how much the apostles struggled to understand what Jesus was teaching them in their time. Wouldn\u8217\'92t it make sense that Jesus would share his path to the final father with us and that we might struggle just as the apostles have to understand his teachings?\line \line 2 - (101:6.17) Through the appropriation of the faith of Jesus, mortal man can foretaste in time the realities of eternity. Jesus made the discovery, in human experience, of the Final Father, and his brothers in the flesh of mortal life can follow him along this same experience of Father discovery. They can even attain, as they are, the same satisfaction in this experience with the Father as did Jesus as he was. New potentials were actualized in the universe of Nebadon consequent upon the terminal bestowal of Michael, and one of these was the new illumination of the path of eternity that leads to the Father of all, and which can be traversed even by the mortals of material flesh and blood in the initial life on the planets of space. Jesus was and is the new and living way whereby man can come into the divine inheritance which the Father has decreed shall be his for but the asking. In Jesus there is abundantly demonstrated both the beginnings and endings of the faith experience of humanity, even of divine humanity.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Jesus words to Simon. Fill the lack of love:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 191:1.2 No longer should you be concerned with what you may obtain from the kingdom but rather be exercised about WHAT YOU CAN GIVE TO THOSE WHO LIVE IN DIRE SPIRITUAL POVERTY. Gird yourself, Simon, for the battle of a new day, the struggle with spiritual darkness and the evil doubtings of the natural minds of men."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Mind training}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 The UB validates the need for and ongoing "mind training" efforts from the world of origin onward for ascenders.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 37:6.1 The Nebadon educational system is jointly administered by the Trinity Teacher Sons and the Melchizedek teaching corps, but much of the work designed to effect its maintenance and upbuilding is carried on by the Celestial Overseers. These beings are a recruited corps embracing all types of individuals connected with the scheme of educating and training the ascending mortals. There are upward of three million of them in Nebadon, and they are all volunteers who have qualified by experience to serve as educational advisers to the entire realm. From their headquarters on the Salvington worlds of the Melchizedeks, these overseers range the local universe as inspectors of the Nebadon school technique designed to effect the mind training and the spirit education of the ascending creatures.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 37:6.2 This training of mind and education of spirit is carried on from the worlds of human origin up through the system mansion worlds and the other spheres of progress associated with Jerusem, on the seventy socializing realms attached to Edentia, and on the four hundred and ninety spheres of spirit progress encircling Salvington. On the universe headquarters itself are numerous Melchizedek schools, the colleges of the Universe Sons, the seraphic universities, and the schools of the Teacher Sons and the Union of Days. Every possible provision is made to qualify the various personalities of the universe for advancing service and improving function. The entire universe is one vast school.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 37:6.3 The methods employed in many of the higher schools are beyond the human concept of the art of teaching truth, but this is the keynote of the whole educational system: character acquired by enlightened experience. The teachers provide the enlightenment; the universe station and the ascender's status afford the opportunity for experience; the wise utilization of these two augments character.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Ego zapping energy}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 You will learn that you increase your burdens and decrease the likelihood of success by taking yourself too seriously. Nothing can take precedence over the work of your status sphere\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 this world or the next. Very important is the work of preparation for the next higher sphere, but nothing equals the importance of the work of the world in which you are actually living. BUT THOUGH THE WORK IS IMPORTANT, THE SELF IS NOT. When you feel important, you lose energy to the wear and tear of ego dignity so that there is little energy left to do the work. Self-importance, not work-importance, exhausts immature creatures; it is the self element that exhausts, not the effort to achieve. You can do important work if you do not become self-important; you can do several things as easily as one if you leave yourself out. Variety is restful; monotony is what wears and exhausts. Day after day is alike\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 just life or the alternative of death.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24 I remember when I first read lesson 199, it seems odd. \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93I am not a body. I am free.\u8221\'94 Why is that even important? It turns out, the Urantia book agrees with this statement. It says a material body is not indispensable to personality in either man or God. A personality does not need a body to exist. The superhuman type of progressing personality functions in a union with mind and spirit.  }
\par\plain \f2\fs24\cf1
\par\plain {\f2\fs24 CIM: }
\par\plain {\f2\fs24 L e s s o n\~199 I am not a body. I am free.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24 1 Freedom must be impossible as long as you perceive a body as yourself. The body is a limit. Who would seek for freedom in a body looks for it where it can not be found. The mind can be made free when it no longer sees itself as in a body, firmly tied to it and sheltered by its presence. If this were the truth, the mind were vulnerable indeed! }
\par\plain \f2\fs24\cf1
\par\plain {\f2\fs24 Urantia:}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24 1:5.12 \~In the contemplation of Deity, the concept of personality must be divested of the idea of corporeality. A MATERIAL BODY IS NOT INDISPENSABLE TO PERSONALITY IN EITHER MAN OR GOD. The corporeality error is shown in both extremes of human philosophy. In materialism, since man loses his body at death, he ceases to exist as a personality; in pantheism, since God has no body, he is not, therefore, a person. THE SUPERHUMAN TYPE OF PROGRESSING PERSONALITY FUNCTIONS IN A UNION OF MIND AND SPIRIT.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24 1:5.13 \~Personality is not simply an attribute of God; it rather stands for the totality of the co-ordinated infinite nature and the unified divine will which is exhibited in eternity and universality of perfect expression. Personality, in the supreme sense, is the revelation of God to the universe of universes.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\cf1
\par\plain {\f2\fs24 7:1.3 From the viewpoint of personality, spirit is the soul of creation; matter is the shadowy physical body.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\cf1
\par\plain {\f2\fs24 12:8.16 In time, man's body is just as real as mind or spirit, but in death, both mind (identity) and spirit survive while the body does not.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\cf1
\par\plain {\f2\fs24 42:12.12 On a material world you think of a body as having a spirit, but we regard the spirit as having a body. The material eyes are truly the windows of the spirit-born soul. The spirit is the architect, the mind is the builder, the body is the material building.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\cf1
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sl259\slmult1\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs18\cf3 (}{\f0\fs22 189:1.3) Mankind is slow to perceive that, in all that is personal, MATTER IS THE SKELETON OF MORONTIA, AND THAT BOTH ARE THE REFLECTED SHADOW OF ENDURING SPIRIT REALITY. How long before you will regard time as the moving image of eternity and space as the fleeting shadow of Paradise realities?}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Religion is escape from the limitations of the temporal world. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (101:9.9) Faith becomes the connection between moral consciousness and the spiritual concept of enduring reality. RELIGION BECOMES THE AVENUE OF MAN'S ESCAPE FROM THE MATERIAL LIMITATIONS OF THE TEMPORAL AND NATURAL WORLD to the supernal realities of the eternal and spiritual world by and through the technique of salvation, the progressive morontia transformation.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 This is why the eternal perspective is hard to understand. They have to talk to us in our time limited minds using the symbols of sequentiality. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 6:0.2 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8230\'85But I was instructed to portray the realities of eternity to the time-limited minds of mortals by such symbols of thought and to designate the relationships of eternity by such time concepts of sequentiality.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 10:5.8 But I do not command language which would enable me to convey to the limited human mind the full truth and the eternal significance of the Paradise Trinity }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f2\fs24 Personality as will}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24 There is associated with personality a limited sovereignty of will.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\cf1
\par\plain {\f2\fs24 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93Creature personality is distinguished by two self-manifesting and characteristic phenomena of mortal reactive behavior: self-consciousness and associated relative free will.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\cf1
\par\plain {\f2\fs24 God does not override our will}
\par\plain {\f2\fs24 JCIM: The will to unite must be unequivocal, or the will itself is divided or not whole. Your will is the means by which you determine your own condition, because will is the mechanism of decision. It is the power by which you separate or join and experience pain or joy accordingly. MY WILL CANNOT OVERCOME YOURS, BECAUSE YOURS IS AS POWERFUL AS MINE. If it were not so, the Sons of God would be unequal. All things are possible through our joint will, but my will alone cannot help you. YOUR WILL IS AS FREE AS MINE, AND GOD HIMSELF WOULD NOT GO AGAINST IT. I cannot will what God does not will. I can offer you my will to make yours invincible by this sharing, but I cannot oppose yours without competing with it and thereby violating God's Will for you.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\cf1
\par\plain {\f2\fs24 Urantia: 5:6.8. \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8230\'85.NO OTHER BEING, FORCE, CREATOR, OR AGENCY in all the wide universe of universes CAN INTERFERE TO ANY DEGREE WITH THE ABSOLUTE SOVEREIGNTY OF THE MORTAL FREE WILL, as it operates within the realms of choice, regarding the eternal destiny of the personality of the choosing mortal.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\cf1
\par\plain \f2\fs24\cf1
\par\plain {\f2\fs24 To continue on this idea of increase, we see that God gives everything he could possibly divest himself of. The Course says real creation gives everything. }
\par\plain \f2\fs24\cf1
\par\plain {\f2\fs24 JCIM: God, Who encompasses all being, nevertheless created beings who have everything individually but who want to share it to increase their joy. Nothing that is real can be increased except by sharing. That is why God Himself created you. Divine Abstraction takes joy in application, and that is what creation means. \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93How,\u8221\'94 \u8220\'93what,\u8221\'94 and \u8220\'93to whom\u8221\'94 are irrelevant because REAL CREATION GIVES EVERYTHING, since it can create only like itself. Remember that in being there is no difference between \u8220\'93having\u8221\'94 and \u8220\'93being\u8221\'94 as there is in existence. IN THE STATE OF BEING, THE MIND GIVES EVERYTHING ALWAYS.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\cf1
\par\plain {\f2\fs24 (10:1.2) THE UNIVERSAL FATHER ALL ALONG HAS DIVESTED HIMSELF OF EVERY PART OF HIMSELF THAT WAS BESTOWABLE ON ANY OTHER CREATOR OR CREATURE. He has delegated to his divine Sons and their associated intelligences every power and all authority that could be delegated. He has actually transferred to his Sovereign Sons, in their respective universes, every prerogative of administrative authority that was transferable. In the affairs of a local universe, he has made each Sovereign Creator Son just as perfect, competent, and authoritative as is the Eternal Son in the original and central universe. HE HAS GIVEN AWAY, actually bestowed, with the dignity and sanctity of personality possession, ALL OF HIMSELF AND ALL OF HIS ATTRIBUTES, EVERYTHING HE POSSIBLY COULD DIVEST HIMSELF OF, in every way, in every age, in every place, and to every person, and in every universe except that of his central indwelling.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\cf1
\par\plain \f2\fs24\cf1
\par\plain \f2\fs24\cf1
\par\plain {\f2\fs24 Jesus earned his sovereignty. }
\par\plain {\f2\fs24 JCIM: My mind will always be like yours, because we were created as equals. IT WAS ONLY MY DECISION THAT GAVE ME ALL POWER IN HEAVEN AND EARTH. My only gift to you is to help you make the same decision for yourself. The will for this decision is the will to share it, because the decision itself is the decision to share. It is made by giving and is therefore the one act of mind that resembles true creation. You understand the role of \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93models\u8221\'94 in the learning process and the importance of the models you value and choose to follow in determining what you will to learn. I am your model for decision. By deciding for God, I showed you that this decision can be made and that you can make it.}
\par\plain \f2\fs24\cf1
\par\plain {\f2\fs24 (134:8.9) On an afternoon in late summer, amid the trees and in the silence of nature, MICHAEL OF NEBADON WON THE UNQUESTIONED SOVEREIGNTY OF HIS UNIVERSE. On that day he completed the task set for Creator Sons to live to the full the incarnated life in the likeness of mortal flesh on the evolutionary worlds of time and space.}
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sl259\slmult1\ltrch\loch \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (136:3.5) While he tarried on the mountain, talking with Gabriel, the Constellation Father of Edentia appeared to Jesus and Gabriel in person, saying: "The records are completed. THE SOVEREIGNTY OF MICHAEL NUMBER 611,121 OVER HIS UNIVERSE OF NEBADON RESTS IN COMPLETION AT THE RIGHT HAND OF THE UNIVERSAL FATHER. I bring to you the bestowal release of Immanuel, your sponsor-brother for the Urantia incarnation. You are at liberty now or at any subsequent time, in the manner of your own choosing, to terminate your incarnation bestowal, ascend to the right hand of your Father, receive your sovereignty, and assume your well-earned UNCONDITIONAL RULERSHIP OF ALL NEBADON. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 JCIM quote: "The Holy One shares my trust and always approves my Atonement decisions because my will is never out of accord with His. I have told you before that I am in charge of the whole Atonement. This is only because I completed my part in it as a man and can now complete it through other men. My chosen receiving and sending channels cannot fail because I will lend them my strength as long as theirs is wanting."}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia quote: "When a Creator has seven times sojourned among his creatures, when the bestowal career is finished, then is he supremely settled in universe authority; he has become a Master Son, a sovereign and supreme ruler."}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Urantia quote: "These primary Paradise Sons are personalized as Michaels. As they go forth from Paradise to found their universes, they are known as Creator Michaels. When settled in supreme authority, they are called Master Michaels. Sometimes we refer to the sovereign of your universe of Nebadon as Christ Michael. Always and forever do they reign after the \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93order of Michael,\u8221\'94 that being the designation of the first Son of their order and nature.\u8221\'94 }
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Unreality, illusory }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 A religion without this God is an invention of man, a human institution of lifeless intellectual beliefs and meaningless emotional ceremonies. A religion might claim as the object of its devotion a great ideal. But such ideals of unreality are not attainable; such a concept is illusionary.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 This is a great example of seeing sin as a lack of love and attempting to fill it. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 (130:2.4) One of the young men who worked with Jesus one day on the steering paddle became much interested in the words which he dropped from hour to hour as they toiled in the shipyard. When Jesus intimated that the Father in heaven was interested in the welfare of his children on earth, this young Greek, Anaxand, said: "If the Gods are interested in me, then why do they not remove the cruel and unjust foreman of this workshop?" He was startled when Jesus replied, "Since you know the ways of kindness and value justice, perhaps the Gods have brought this erring man near that you may lead him into this better way. Maybe you are the salt which is to make this brother more agreeable to all other men; that is, if you have not lost your savor. As it is, this man is your master in that his evil ways unfavorably influence you. Why not assert your mastery of evil by virtue of the power of goodness and thus become the master of all relations between the two of you? I predict that the good in you could overcome the evil in him if you gave it a fair and living chance. There is no adventure in the course of mortal existence more enthralling than to enjoy the exhilaration of becoming the material life partner with spiritual energy and divine truth in one of their triumphant struggles with error and evil. It is a marvelous and transforming experience to become the living channel of spiritual light to the mortal who sits in spiritual darkness. If you are more blessed with truth than is this man, his need should challenge you. Surely you are not the coward who could stand by on the seashore and watch a fellow man who could not swim perish! How much more of value is this man's soul floundering in darkness compared to his body drowning in water!"}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 Pride goes before a fall ( ego)}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 111:6.9.Of all the dangers which beset man's mortal nature and jeopardize his spiritual integrity, pride is the greatest. Courage is valorous, but egotism is vainglorious and suicidal. Reasonable self-confidence is not to be deplored. Man's ability to transcend himself is the one thing which distinguishes him from the animal kingdom.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 111:6.10.Pride is deceitful, intoxicating, and sin-breeding whether found in an individual, a group, a race, or a nation. It is literally true, "Pride goes before a fall."}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 CIM The ego uses the body for attack, for pleasure, and for pride.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22 CIM It is easy to distinguish grandeur from grandiosity because love is returned, but pride is not. Pride will not produce miracles and therefore will deprive you of your true witnesses to your reality. Truth is not obscure nor hidden, but its obviousness to you lies in the joy you bring to its witnesses, who show it to you. They attest to your grandeur, but they cannot attest to pride, because pride is not shared. God wants you to behold what He created, because it is His joy.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\cf1
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs28\cf4 Chapter one }
\par\plain \f0\fs28\cf4
\par\plain {\f0\fs28\cf4 11 Prayer is the medium of miracles. Prayer is the natural communication of the created with the Creator. Through prayer love is received, and through miracles love is expressed.}
\par\plain \f0\fs28\cf4
\par\plain \f0\fs28\cf4
\par\plain {\f0\fs28\cf4 168:4.9 6. All true prayers are addressed to spiritual beings, and all such petitions must be answered in spiritual terms, and all such answers must consist in spiritual realities. Spirit beings cannot bestow material answers to the spirit petitions of even material beings. Material beings can pray effectively only when they \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93pray in the spirit.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs28\cf4
\par\plain \f0\fs28\cf4
\par\plain {\f0\fs28\cf4 17. Miracles are the transcendence of the body. They are sudden shifts into invisibility, away from a sense of lower-order reality. That is why they heal.}
\par\plain \f0\fs28\cf4
\par\plain {\f0\fs28\cf4 130:7.4 On the inhabited worlds, human personality (indwelt and oriented by the Paradise Father\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s spirit) is the only physically related reality which can transcend the material sequence of temporal events.}
\par\plain \f0\fs28\cf4
\par\plain {\f0\fs28\cf4 111:6.8 It is only natural that mortal man should be harassed by feelings of insecurity as he views himself inextricably bound to nature while he possesses spiritual powers wholly transcendent to all things temporal and finite}
\par\plain \f0\fs28\cf4
\par\plain {\f0\fs28\cf4 19. 19 Miracles make minds one in God. They depend on cooperation because the }{\f3\fs28\b1\cf4 Sonship is the sum of all the Souls God created}{\f0\fs28\b0\cf4 . Miracles therefore rest on the laws of eternity, not of time.}
\par\plain \f0\fs28\b0\cf4
\par\plain {\f0\fs28\b0\cf4 117:3.1 The far-flung diversification of eternal energy, divine spirit, and universal mind attains finite culmination in the evolution of the Supreme, who is the }{\f3\fs28\b1\cf4 sum total of all finite growth}{\f0\fs28\b0\cf4 ,}
\par\plain \f0\fs28\b0\cf4
\par\plain {\f0\fs28\b0\cf4 117:0.4 The parts and individuals of the grand universe evolve as a reflection of the total evolution of the Supreme, while in turn the }{\f3\fs28\b1\cf4 Supreme is the synthetic cumulative total}{\f0\fs28\b0\cf4  of all grand universe evolution.}
\par\plain \f0\fs28\b0\cf4
\par\plain {\f0\fs28\b0\cf4 28. }{\f0\fs18\b0\cf4 35}{\f0\fs28\b0\cf4  Miracles are a means of organizing different levels of consciousness.}
\par\pard\plain \fi288\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs18\b0\cf4 36}{\f0\fs28\b0\cf4  Miracles come from the below or subconscious level. Revelations come from the above or superconscious level. The conscious level is in between and reacts to either sub- or superconscious impulses in varying ratios. Consciousness is the level which engages in the world and is capable of responding to both. Having no impulses from itself and being primarily a mechanism for inducing response, it can be very wrong.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs18\b0\cf4 37}{\f0\fs28\b0\cf4  Revelation induces complete but temporary suspension of doubt and fear. It represents the original form of communication between God and His Souls, involving an extremely personal sense of closeness to creation which man tries to find in physical relationships. Physical closeness }{\f4\fs28\b0\i1\cf4 cannot}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4  achieve this. The subconscious impulses properly induce miracles, which are genuinely interpersonal and result in real closeness to others. This can be misunderstood by a }{\f4\fs28\b0\i1\cf4 personally}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4  willful consciousness as impulses toward physical gratification.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs18\b0\i0\cf4 38}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4  Revelation unites Souls directly with God. Miracles unite minds directly with each other. Neither emanates from consciousness, but both are }{\f4\fs28\b0\i1\cf4 experienced}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4  there. This is essential since consciousness is the state which induces action, though it does }{\f4\fs28\b0\i1\cf4 not}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4  inspire it. Man is free to believe what he chooses, and what he }{\f4\fs28\b0\i1\cf4 does}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4  attests to what he believes. The deeper levels of the subconscious }{\f4\fs28\b0\i1\cf4 always}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4  contain the impulse to miracles, but man is free to fill its more superficial levels, which are closer to consciousness, with the impulses of this world and to identify himself with them. This results in }{\f4\fs28\b0\i1\cf4 denying}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4  himself access to the miracle level underneath. In his actions, then, his relationships also become superficial, and miracle-inspired relating becomes impossible.}
\par\plain \f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0\cf5 Urantia 91:2.6}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf5  During the earlier times of racial evolution and even at the present time, in the day-by-day experience of the average mortal, prayer is very much a phenomenon of man's intercourse with his own subconscious. But there is also a domain of prayer wherein the intellectually alert and spiritually progressing individual attains more or less contact with the superconscious levels of the human mind, the domain of the indwelling Thought Adjuster. In addition, there is a definite spiritual phase of true prayer which concerns its reception and recognition by the spiritual forces of the universe, and which is entirely distinct from all human and intellectual association.}
\par\plain \f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4
\par\plain {\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4 Urantia }{\f0\fs22\b0\i0\cf5 91:3.5}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf5  Aside from all that is superself in the experience of praying, it should be remembered that ethical prayer is a splendid way to elevate one's ego and reinforce the self for better living and higher attainment. Prayer induces the human ego to look both ways for help: for material aid to the subconscious reservoir of mortal experience, for inspiration and guidance to the superconscious borders of the contact of the material with the spiritual, with the Mystery Monitor.}
\par\plain \f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4
\par\plain {\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4 Urantia: }{\f0\fs22\b0\i0\cf5 91:7.4}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf5  The human mind may perform in response to so-called inspiration when it is sensitive either to the uprisings of the subconscious or to the stimulus of the superconscious. In either case it appears to the individual that such augmentations of the content of consciousness are more or less foreign. Unrestrained mystical enthusiasm and rampant religious ecstasy are not the credentials of inspiration, supposedly divine credentials.}
\par\plain \f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4
\par\plain \f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0\cf5 Urantia 109:5.1}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf5  Supreme and self-acting Adjusters are often able to contribute factors of spiritual import to the human mind when it flows freely in the liberated but controlled channels of creative imagination. At such times, and sometimes during sleep, the Adjuster is able to arrest the mental currents, to stay the flow, and then to divert the idea procession; and all this is done in order to effect deep spiritual transformations in the higher recesses of the superconsciousness. Thus are the forces and energies of mind more fully adjusted to the key of the contactual tones of the spiritual level of the present and the future.}
\par\plain \f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4
\par\plain \f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0\cf5 Urantia 100:5.6}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf5  If one is disposed to recognize a theoretical subconscious mind as a practical working hypothesis in the otherwise unified intellectual life, then, to be consistent, one should postulate a similar and corresponding realm of ascending intellectual activity as the superconscious level, the zone of immediate contact with the indwelling spirit entity, the Thought Adjuster. The great danger in all these psychic speculations is that visions and other so-called mystic experiences, along with extraordinary dreams, may be regarded as divine communications to the human mind. In times past, divine beings have revealed themselves to certain God-knowing persons, not because of their mystic trances or morbid visions, but in spite of all these phenomena.}
\par\plain \f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4
\par\plain \f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4
\par\plain {\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4 Match this with God reaching down to man.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4 No man cometh unto the Father but by me" is among the most misunderstood statements in the Bible. It does }{\f4\fs28\b0\i1\cf4 not}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4  mean that I am in any way separate or different from you }{\f4\fs28\b0\i1\cf4 except in time}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4 , which does not really exist at all. Actually, the quotation is more meaningful if it is considered on a vertical rather than a horizontal axis. Regarded along the vertical, man stands below me and I stand below God. In the process of "rising up," I }{\f4\fs28\b0\i1\cf4 am}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4  higher. This is because, without me, the distance between God and man would be too great for you to encompass.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs18\b0\i0\cf4 80}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4  I bridge the distance as an elder brother to man on the one hand and as a Son of God on the other. My devotion to my brothers has placed me in charge of the Sonship, which I can render complete only to the extent to which I can }{\f4\fs28\b0\i1\cf4 share}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4  it. This may appear to contradict the statement, "I and my Father are one," but there are still separate parts in the statement in recognition that the Father is greater. (The original statement was "are of one kind"). The Holy Spirit is the bringer of revelations. Revelations are }{\f4\fs28\b0\i1\cf4 indirectly}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4  inspired by me because I am close to the Holy Spirit and alert to the revelation-readiness of my brothers. I }{\f3\fs28\b1\i0\cf4 can thus }{\f5\fs28\b1\i1\cf4 bring}{\f3\fs28\b1\i0\cf4  down to them more than they can }{\f5\fs28\b1\i1\cf4 draw}{\f3\fs28\b1\i0\cf4  down to themselves.}
\par\plain \f3\fs28\b1\i0\cf4
\par\plain \f3\fs28\b1\i0\cf4
\par\plain {\f3\fs28\b1\i0\cf4 Already matched this\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8230\'85.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4 50. }{\f0\fs18\b0\i0\cf4 82}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4  The miracle is a learning device which lessens the need for time. In the longitudinal or horizontal plane, the recognition of the true equality of all the members of the Sonship appears to involve almost endless time. However, the sudden shift from horizontal to vertical perception which the miracle entails introduces an interval from which the doer and the receiver }{\f4\fs28\b0\i1\cf4 both}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4  emerge much farther along in time than they would otherwise have been.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs18\b0\i0\cf4 83}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4  The miracle thus has the unique property of shortening time by rendering the space of time it occupies unnecessary. There is }{\f4\fs28\b0\i1\cf4 no}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4  relationship between the time a miracle }{\f4\fs28\b0\i1\cf4 takes}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4  and the time it }{\f4\fs28\b0\i1\cf4 covers}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4 . It substitutes for learning that might have taken thousands of years. It does this by the underlying recognition of perfect equality and holiness between the doer and the receiver on which the miracle rests.}
\par\plain \f3\fs28\b1\i0\cf4
\par\plain \f3\fs28\b1\i0\cf4
\par\plain {\f3\fs28\b1\i0\cf4 Match this to Sonship quoted}
\par\pard\plain \fi288\qj\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs18\b0\i0\cf4 88}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4  Equality does not imply homogeneity }{\f4\fs28\b0\i1\cf4 now}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4 . When everyone recognizes that he has everything, individual contributions to the Sonship will no longer be necessary. When the Atonement has been completed, }{\f4\fs28\b0\i1\cf4 all}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4  talents will be shared by }{\f4\fs28\b0\i1\cf4 all}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4  the Sons of God. God is }{\f4\fs28\b0\i1\cf4 not}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4  partial. All His Children have His total love, and }{\f4\fs28\b0\i1\cf4 all}{\f0\fs28\b0\i0\cf4  His gifts are freely given to everyone alike. "Except ye become as little children" means that, unless you fully recognize your complete dependence on God, you cannot know the real power of the Son in his true relationship with the Father.}
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch \f3\fs28\b1\i0\cf4
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sl259\slmult1\ltrch\loch \f0\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 Miracles are for and by believers}
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 The God-knowing man describes his spiritual experiences, not to convince unbelievers, but for the edification and mutual satisfaction of believers.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 Course quote. Formula that leads to fear. Starts with projection. }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 Projection means anger, anger fosters assault, and assault promotes fear}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 Great love story }
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 4 - (22:2.6) I am a Mighty Messenger, and it may interest Urantians to know that the companion and associate of my mortal experience was also triumphant in the great test, and that, though we were many times and for long periods separated in the agelong inward ascent to Havona, we were embraced in the same seven-hundred-thousand group, and that we spent our time passing through Vicegerington in close and loving association. We were finally commissioned and together assigned to Uversa of Orvonton, and we are often dispatched in company for the execution of assignments requiring the services of two Messengers.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 7 - (25:8.7) During your prefinaliter sojourn on Paradise, if for any reason you should be temporarily separated from your associate of the ascending career\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 mortal or seraphic\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 a Paradise Companion would be forthwith assigned for counsel and companionship. When once assigned to an ascendant mortal of solitary residence on Paradise, the companion remains with this person until he either is rejoined by his ascendant associates or is duly mustered into the Corps of the Finality.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 The Material Sons and Daughters always serve together. It is the essence of their service at all times and in all places never to be separated. They are designed to work in pairs; seldom do they function alone.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 Is it possible that the Course in Miracles is seeking to train a certain type of mortal for a unique career in the seven superuniverses? Urantia: "They have acquired a spiritual concept of the eternal purpose of the Universal Father which comparatively transcends the comprehension of the evolutionary creatures of name or number"}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 Urantia: 22:4.1 Those without Name and Number constitute the third and last group of the Trinitized Sons of Attainment; they are the ascendant souls who have developed the ability to worship beyond the skill of all the sons and daughters of the evolutionary races from the worlds of time and space. They have acquired a spiritual concept of the eternal purpose of the Universal Father which comparatively transcends the comprehension of the evolutionary creatures of name or number; therefore are they denominated Those without Name and Number. More strictly translated, their name would be \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Those above Name and Number.\u8221\'94}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 22:4.7 You mortals who read this message may yourselves ascend to Paradise, attain the Trinity embrace, and in remote future ages be attached to the service of the Ancients of Days in one of the seven superuniverses, and sometime be assigned to enlarge the revelation of truth to some evolving inhabited planet, even as I am now functioning on Urantia.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 ____________________________________________________________________________}
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sl259\slmult1\ltrch\loch \f0\fs22\b0\i0\cf1
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0\cf1}