{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sa100\sb100\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 People always get hung up on terminology differences between the Urantia book and Course in Miracles. Some say how can I accept a course that says sin is an illusion or sin does not exist. My response is how can you accept the Urantia book when it says sin is a cosmic unreality, and that sin is not a spirit reality. We can even find quotes in the Urantia book from Jesus who says \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8220\'93My brother, God is love; therefore he must be good, and his goodness is so great and real that it cannot contain the small and UNREAL THINGS OF EVIL.\u8221\'94 Was that a mistake in the Urantia book? Did Jesus really say that? He didn\u8217\'92t mean it literally did he? According to the UB sin is unreal. Where else besides the Urantia book and Course in Miracles will you hear that kind of language? And where else will you hear about the possibility of passing to a higher reality without dying? What is the purpose of the Course? Is it to live in the world and be of the world? Or is the goal to transcend time and see at least to the morontia semi spirit level? }
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 And the text surely doesn\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92t recommend you dismiss this reality and say oh so what and I don\u8217\'92t need to care or do anything. The text says it wants active participants. It even gave us a slogan, listen, learn and do. \u8220\'93 Listen to my voice, learn to undo error, and do something to correct it. The first two are not enough. The real members of my party are active workers.\u8221\'94 Do something to correct it. You can\u8217\'92t read one lesson and say oh that is so wrong. It is a Course and the text is a vital part of it. If you just want to live in this world and identify every evil and every sin and attack it in the name of saving humanity then maybe the Course is not for you. Because the Course is clearly a guide to transcend time and get in touch with our higher mind, morontia mind. And the Urantia book clearly says adjuster fusion is a lofty goal. What is fusion but doing God\u8217\'92s will perfectly. After all this is exactly what Jesus did. \u8220\'93What is the face of Christ but his who went a moment into timelessness and brought a clear reflection of the unity he felt an instant back to bless the world?\u8221\'94. So it is unfair to classify the course as some kind of irresponsible advocate for not caring. How can that be when it constantly emphasizes our sonship with each other? It constantly encourages us to forgive each other and turn to the Holy Spirit for guidance in what to do next.}
\par\pard\plain \sa160\sl259\slmult1\ql\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs22\b0\i0 Regarding personality extinction this is what the Urantia book says about that. First, this: 109:3.2 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93Nothing of survival value is ever lost in all the wide universe.\u8221\'94 From an eternal perspective there is no danger of losing anything that matters. Hence no fear. The personality will survive, the adjuster will survive, even the experiences of the lost identity of the human will survive in the adjuster. The part that does not survive is the IDENTITY of the human being. That is a purely temporal creation. No danger ever exists in eternity. The idea that God or Jesus would create some kind of reality (temporal) and then subject something that was changeless and eternal (personality) to a potential eternal death is as heartless as the atonement doctrine of Christianity (that God required his perfect son\u8217\'92s life on the cross as ransom for a creation he no longer loves). \line \line These words in the Urantia book are plain and simple. It says personality will attain deity destiny. It never changes, it will not die. What dies is the human identity in time, a purely temporal creation. \line \line 112:5.2 Having appeared in response to the Father's will, PERSONALITY WILL ATTAIN DEITY DESTINY, but man must choose whether or not he will be present at the attainment of such destiny. IN DEFAULT OF SUCH CHOICE, PERSONALITY ATTAINS EXPERIENTIAL DEITY DIRECTLY, becoming a part of the Supreme Being. The cycle is foreordained, but man's participation therein is optional, personal, and experiential.\line \line When it says \u8220\'93mans participation\u8221\'94 it is referring to identity in time, not personality in eternity. Eternity is an impossible concept for us to comprehend. We can only logically think about the idea that something is changeless and has always existed. This is how the Urantia book describes personality. It is unchanging in the face of change. \line \line 112:5.20 Human life is an endless change of the factors of life unified by the stability of the unchanging personality.\line \line It is the one CHANGELESS REALITY in an otherwise ever-changing creature experience. \line \line 0:5.11Personality. The personality of mortal man is neither body, mind, nor spirit; neither is it the soul. PERSONALITY IS THE ONE CHANGELESS REALITY in an otherwise ever-changing creature experience\line \line In the next quote it says never again does it (identity) appear as a personality. It\u8217\'92s identity becomes a though it had never been. Here we are talking about identity not personality. Personality becomes a part of the supreme being. It is important to differentiate between personality and identity. \line \line 2:3.4 When the continued embrace of sin by the associated mind culminates in complete self-identification with iniquity, then upon the cessation of life, upon cosmic dissolution, such an isolated PERSONALITY is absorbed into the oversoul of creation, BECOMING A PART OF THE EVOLVING EXPERIENCE OF THE SUPREME BEING. Never again does it appear as a personality; its IDENTITY becomes as though it had never been.\line \line When it says \u8220\'93never again does it\u8221\'94, the \u8220\'93it\u8221\'94 the Urantia book is referring to is identity not personality and the identity created by the personality will never again appear in time. How can personality become as though it had never been when it is changeless? Nothing of value is ever lost in the whole wide universe. There is nothing to fear in the big picture. God\u8217\'92s plan is merciful and just. The end of time will be the culmination of all temporal experience. God the Supreme will wake up and forever be in charge of his temporal creation. \line \line 117:2.1 And the final fruits of all finite growth are: power controlled through mind by spirit by virtue of the unifying and creative presence of personality. The culminating consequence of all this growth is the Supreme Being.\line \line The whole point of this post is to point out the course\u8217\'92s message that there is ultimately nothing to fear. That was Jesus\u8217\'92s message, the Urantia book\u8217\'92s message, (Unreasoned fear is a master intellectual fraud practiced upon the evolving mortal soul), and the Course in Miracles message. The creation of the Supreme Being is a messy business here on earth. It is like making sausage. But nothing from an eternal perspective is in danger.}
\par\plain \f0\fs22\b0\i0}