{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-BoldMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \qc\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs36\b1\i0 The spark (adjuster?) of life lives in the mind.}
\par\pard\plain \li475\ltrch\loch \f1\fs36\b1\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs26\b0\i0 CIM-OE: The power of one mind can shine into another because all the lamps of God were lit by the same }{\f1\fs26\b1\i0 spark}{\f0\fs26\b0\i0 . It is everywhere, and it is eternal.In many only the spark remains, for the Great Rays are obscured. Yet God has kept the }{\f1\fs26\b1\i0 spark}{\f0\fs26\b0\i0  alive so that the rays can never be completely forgotten. If you but see the little }{\f1\fs26\b1\i0 spark}{\f0\fs26\b0\i0 , you will learn of the greater light, for the rays are there unseen. Perceiving the SPARK will heal, but knowing the light will create. Yet in the returning, the little light must be acknowledged first, for the separation was a descent from magnitude to littleness. But the }{\f1\fs26\b1\i0 spark}{\f0\fs26\b0\i0  is still as pure as the great light because it is the remaining call of creation. Put all your faith in it, and God Himself will answer you.}
\par\plain \f0\fs26\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs26\b0\i0 Urantia: 132:3.6 Faith acts to release the superhuman activities of the divine }{\f1\fs26\b1\i0 spark}{\f0\fs26\b0\i0 , the immortal germ, that lives within the mind of man, and which is the potential of eternal survival. Plants and animals survive in time by the technique of passing on from one generation to another identical particles of themselves. The human soul (personality) of man survives mortal death by identity association with this indwelling SPARK of divinity, which is immortal, and which functions to perpetuate the human personality upon a continuing and higher level of progressive universe existence.}}