{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \sa240\sb240\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b1 Why write and introduction?}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 https://www.publishtogetclients.com/foreword-preface-introduction-or-prologue-which-one/}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 Preface}{\f0\fs24  \endash  A preface is written by the author of the book \endash  YOU.\~ The goal of the Preface is to acquaint readers with any interesting background about the book before they jump into it. It often contains an explanation of how you, as author, came to write the book, such as your growing concern about an issue, or a personal incident that happened to you. It often also includes a section on who the book is for, and how to use the book if you want your readers to be aware of any specific recommendations. Some authors, for instance, tell readers which sections are most useful to various circumstances, or to read the book twice, or to go get a journal to write in while reading the book. Be aware that one rule of thumb is, you can\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t assume that your readers will read your preface. So don\u8217\'92t get into any significant content issues in your preface. Assume readers may have skipped it.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1 Introduction }{\f0\fs24 \endash  An introduction to a book is often used to take the place of a Preface, precisely because we know that many readers skip the Preface. By labeling nearly the same content an Introduction, it leads readers to believe they should read it. So basically, an Introduction serves the same purpose as a Preface, but just relabeling it makes it seem more pertinent and required reading. However, another difference is that an Introduction can begin to get into the actual content of your book. For instance, you might begin discussing the thesis of your book and the challenges we face in getting solutions for it. In this way, the Introduction serves to open up Chapter 1.}}