{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Palatino-Roman;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi360\sl312\slmult1\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs26 All these activities of the morontia and spirit worlds are real. To spirit beings the spirit world is a reality. To us the material world is the more unreal. The higher forms of spirits freely pass through ordinary matter. High spirits are reactive to nothing material excepting certain of the basic energies. To material beings the spirit world is more or less unreal; to spirit beings the material world is almost entirely unreal, being merely a shadow of the substance of spirit realities.}
\par\plain \f0\fs26\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs26 Thorpe Saxton Good quote. That quote is not just a play on words by the revelators.  This is a view from the eternal perspective. The temporal is temporary by definition. As massive as the seven super universes are, they will one day be settled and time will exhaust all potentials. We will have learned everything we can from the \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93simulation\u8221\'94, the sonship. }
\par\plain \f0\fs26\cf1
\par\plain {\f0\fs26 The eternal can exist without the temporal, but the temporal is totally dependent on the eternal. Eternity is real, the temporal is the shadow.......... said the tadpole lol}}